2026 ANTI-DOPING RULES 

APPENDIX 1 

DEFINITIONS 

 
  

 

 



 
 

When used in these Anti-Doping Rules, the following words or terms have the following meanings 
(the defined terms below include their plural and possessive forms, as well as those terms used 
as other parts of speech): 

ADAMS: The Anti-Doping Administration and Management System (ADAMS) is a web-based 
database management tool for data entry, storage, sharing, and reporting designed to assist 
stakeholders and WADA in their anti-doping operations in conjunction with data protection 
legislation. 

Administration: Providing, supplying, supervising, facilitating, or otherwise participating in the Use 
or Attempted Use by another Person of a Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method. However, 
this definition will not include the actions of bona fide medical personnel involving a Prohibited 
Substance or Prohibited Method Used for genuine and legal therapeutic purposes or other 
acceptable justification and will not include actions involving Prohibited Substances that are not 
prohibited in Out-of-Competition Testing unless the circumstances as a whole demonstrate that 
such Prohibited Substances are not intended for genuine and legal therapeutic purposes or are 
intended to enhance sport performance. 

Adverse Analytical Finding: A report from a WADA-accredited laboratory or other WADA-
approved laboratory that, consistent with the International Standard for Laboratories, establishes 
in a Sample the presence of a Prohibited Substance or its Metabolites or Markers or evidence of 
the Use of a Prohibited Method.  

Adverse Passport Finding: A report identified as an Adverse Passport Finding as described in the 
applicable International Standards. 

Aggravating Circumstances: Circumstances involving, or actions by, an Athlete or other Person 
that may justify the imposition of a period of Ineligibility greater than the standard sanction. Such 
circumstances and actions include, but are not limited to: the Athlete or other Person Used or 
Possessed multiple Prohibited Substances or Prohibited Methods, Used or Possessed a Prohibited 
Substance or Prohibited Method on multiple occasions or committed multiple other anti-doping 
rule violations; a normal individual would be likely to enjoy the performance-enhancing effects of 
the anti-doping rule violation(s) beyond the otherwise applicable period of Ineligibility; the 
Athlete or other Person engaged in deceptive or obstructive conduct to avoid the detection or 
adjudication of an anti-doping rule violation; or the Athlete or other Person engaged in Tampering 
during Results Management. For the avoidance of doubt, the examples of circumstances and 
conduct described herein are not exclusive and other similar circumstances or conduct may also 
justify the imposition of a longer period of Ineligibility.  

Anti-Doping Activities: Anti-doping Education and information, test distribution planning, 
maintenance of a Registered Testing Pool, managing Athlete Biological Passports, conducting 
Testing, organising analysis of Samples, gathering of intelligence and conduct of investigations, 
processing of TUE applications, Results Management, monitoring and enforcing compliance with 
any Consequences imposed, and all other activities related to anti-doping to be carried out by or 
on behalf of an Anti-Doping Organisation, as set out in the World Anti-Doping Code and/or the 
International Standards. 

Anti-Doping Organisation: WADA or a Signatory that is responsible for adopting rules for initiating, 
implementing or enforcing any part of the Doping Control process. This includes, for example, the 

 

 



 
 

International Olympic Committee, the International Paralympic Committee, other Major Event 
Organisations that conduct Testing at their Events, World Athletics and other international 
federations, and National Anti-Doping Organisations. 

Athlete: Any Person who competes in sport at the international level (as defined by each 
International Federation), or the national level (as defined by each National Anti-Doping 
Organisation). An Anti-Doping Organisation has discretion to apply anti-doping rules to an Athlete 
who is neither an International-Level Athlete nor a national-level Athlete, and thus to bring them 
within the definition of 'Athlete.' In relation to Athletes who are neither International-Level 
Athletes nor National-Level Athletes, an Anti-Doping Organisation may elect to conduct limited 
Testing or no Testing at all; analyse Samples for less than the full menu of Prohibited Substances; 
require limited or no whereabouts information; or not require advance TUEs. However, if an Rule 
2.1, 2.3 or 2.5 anti-doping rule violation is committed by any Athlete over whom an Anti-Doping 
Organisation has elected to exercise its authority to test and who competes below the international 
or national level, then the Consequences set forth in these Anti-Doping Rules must be applied. For 
purposes of Rule 2.8 and Rule 2.9 and for purposes of anti-doping information and Education, any 
Person who participates in sport under the authority of any Signatory, government, or other sports 
organisation accepting the Code is an Athlete. 

[Comment: Individuals who participate in sport may fall in one of five categories: 1) International-Level Athlete, 2) 
National-Level Athlete, 3) individuals who are not International-Level or National-Level Athletes but over whom the 
International Federation or National Anti-Doping Organisation has chosen to exercise authority, 4) Recreational 
Athlete, and 5) individuals over whom no International Federation or National Anti-Doping Organisation has, or has 
chosen to, exercise authority. All International-Level and National-Level Athletes are subject to the anti-doping rules of 
the World Anti-Doping Code, with the precise definitions of international and national level sport to be set out in the 
anti-doping rules of the International Federations and National Anti-Doping Organisations.]  

Athlete Biological Passport: The program and methods of gathering and collating data as 
described in the International Standard for Testing and Investigations and International Standard 
for Laboratories. 

Athlete Support Person: Any coach, trainer, manager, agent, team staff, official, medical, 
paramedical personnel, parent or any other Person working with, treating or assisting an Athlete 
participating in or preparing for sports Competition. 

Athletics Integrity Unit: The Athletics Integrity Unit as defined in Rule 1.2 and Part X of the World 
Athletics Constitution. 

Attempt: Purposely engaging in conduct that constitutes a substantial step in a course of conduct 
planned to culminate in the commission of an anti-doping rule violation; provided, however, that 
there will be no anti-doping rule violation based solely on an Attempt to commit a violation if the 
Person renounces the Attempt prior to it being discovered by a third party not involved in the 
Attempt. 

Atypical Finding: A report from a WADA-accredited laboratory or other WADA-approved 
laboratory that requires further investigation prior to the determination of an Adverse Analytical 
Finding, as provided in the International Standard for Laboratories or related Technical 
Documents.  

Atypical Passport Finding: A report described as an Atypical Passport Finding as described in the 
applicable International Standards. 

CAS: The Court of Arbitration for Sport. 

 

 



 
 

Category ‘A’ Member Federation: A Member Federation that represents a high doping risk to the 
integrity of the sport of Athletics at international level. 

Category ‘B’ Member Federation: A Member Federation that represents a medium or potential 
doping risk to the integrity of the sport of Athletics at international level. 

Category ‘C’ Member Federation: A Member Federation that represents a low doping risk to the 
integrity of the sport of Athletics at international level. 

Competition: A single race or contest (e.g. the 100 metres or the Javelin Throw) including any 
qualifying rounds thereof.  

Consequences of anti-doping rule violations ('Consequences'): An Athlete’s or other Person’s 
anti-doping rule violation may result in one or more of the following:  

(a) Disqualification means the Athlete’s results in a particular Competition or Event are 
invalidated, with all resulting Consequences including forfeiture of any medals, titles, 
points, prize money, and prizes;  

(b) Ineligibility means the Athlete or other Person is barred on account of an anti-doping rule 
violation for a specified period of time from participating in any Competition, Event or 
other activity or funding, as provided in Rule 10.14;  

(c) Provisional Suspension means the Athlete or other Person is barred temporarily from 
participating in any Competition, Event or activity prior to the final decision at a hearing 
conducted under Rule 8.  

(d) Financial Consequences means the recovery of costs associated with an anti-doping rule 
violation; and  

(e) Public Disclosure means the dissemination or distribution of information to the general 
public or Persons beyond those Persons entitled to earlier notification in accordance with 
Rule 14.  

Contaminated Product: A product that contains a Prohibited Substance that is not disclosed on 
the product label or in information available in a reasonable Internet search. 

Corrective Action Notice: A notice issued by the Integrity Unit that identifies any Non-Compliance 
by a Member Federation, the actions that the Member Federation shall take to correct the Non-
Compliance, and the timeframes within which those corrective actions shall be completed. 

Corrective Action Plan: A plan drafted by a Member Federation setting out how the Member 
Federation will implement the corrective actions identified in a Corrective Action Notice within 
the timeframes set in that notice.  

Council:  means the body described in Part V of the World Athletics Constitution. 

Critical Non-Compliance: Where a Member Federation has breached or not complied (or cannot 
evidence compliance) with one or more of its obligations under Rule 15 that are set out in 
Appendix 9 (Critical Non-Compliance List), or where a matter is otherwise stated in Rule 15 as 
being a Critical Non-Compliance. 

Decision Limit: The value of the result for a threshold substance in a Sample above which an 
Adverse Analytical Finding will be reported, as defined in the International Standard for 
Laboratories. 

 

 



 
 

Delegated Third Party: Any Person to whom the Integrity Unit delegates any aspect of Doping 
Control or anti-doping Education programs including, but not limited to, third parties or other 
Anti-Doping Organisations that conduct Sample collection or other Doping Control services or 
anti-doping Educational programs for the Integrity Unit, or individuals serving as independent 
contractors who perform Doping Control services for the Integrity Unit (e.g., non-employee 
Doping Control officers or chaperones). This definition does not include CAS. 

Disqualification: See Consequences of anti-doping rule violations, above. 

Doping Control: All steps and processes from test distribution planning through to ultimate 
disposition of any appeal and the enforcement of Consequences, including all steps and 
processes in between, including but not limited to Testing, investigations, whereabouts, TUEs, 
Sample collection and handling, laboratory analysis, Results Management, and investigations or 
proceedings relating to violations of Rule 10.14 (Status during Ineligibility or Provisional 
Suspension). 

Education: The process of learning to instil values and develop behaviours that foster and protect 
the spirit of sport, and to prevent intentional and unintentional doping. 

Effective Date: As defined in Rule 1.7. 

Electronic Device: means without limitation any electronic communication device (such as a 
smart phone) or electronic storage device (such as a computer, laptop computer, tablet, hard 
drive, disk). 

Electronic Services: mean without limitation any cloud-based services or servers (such as 
WhatsApp, OneDrive, Facebook Messenger) or any other storage media or platforms on which 
data may be stored (such as a social media platform). 

Event: A series of individual Competitions held over one or more days under one ruling body (e.g., 
the World Championships in Athletics or the Olympic Games). 

Event of Force Majeure: An event affecting a Member Federation’s ability to achieve Rule 15 
compliance that arises from or is attributable to acts, events, omissions, or accidents that are 
beyond the reasonable control of the Member Federation. Such events may include any natural 
physical disaster, war, military operations, riot, crowd disorder, strike, lock-outs or other 
industrial action, terrorist action, or civil commotion.  

In no circumstances, however, shall it be considered an Event of Force Majeure:  

(1)  that the Non-Compliance has been caused by a lack of resources, changes in elected or 
 appointed officials or personnel, or by any act or omission (including any interference 
 and/or  a failure to provide support) by any governmental or other public authorities. 
 Each Member Federation has voluntarily accepted the obligation to comply with its 
 obligations under the Anti-Doping Rules, which includes an obligation under Rule 
 15.2.2 to take all necessary measures as may be required in order to achieve and 
 maintain Rule 15 compliance; or  

(2)  that the Member Federation delegated the task of complying with some or all of its 
 obligations under Rule 15 to a Relevant Anti-Doping Organisation.  

[Comment to definition of Event of Force Majeure]: A Member Federation with an obligation to comply with Rule 15 
remains fully liable for any non-compliance even if it is due to the actions of other bodies that it relies on but that it 
does not control. The Member Federation has the right to decide how to meet that obligation, including the right to 
assign certain tasks to a Relevant Anti-Doping Organisation or other appropriate third party, should it see fit, but it 

 

 



 
 

remains fully responsible for complying with the World Athletics Anti-Doping Rules, and is fully liable for any Non-
Compliance caused by any failures of such third party.]  

Event Period: The time between the beginning and end of an Event, as established by the ruling 
body of the Event. 

Event Venues: Those venues so designated by the ruling body for the Event. 

Fault: Fault is any breach of duty or any lack of care appropriate to a particular situation. Factors 
to be taken into consideration in assessing an Athlete’s or other Person’s degree of Fault include, 
for example, the Athlete’s or other Person’s experience, whether the Athlete or other Person is 
a Protected Person, special considerations such as impairment, the degree of risk that should 
have been perceived by the Athlete and the level of care and investigation exercised by the 
Athlete in relation to what should have been the perceived level of risk. In assessing the Athlete’s 
or other Person’s degree of Fault, the circumstances considered must be specific and relevant to 
explain the Athlete’s or other Person’s departure from the expected standard of behaviour. Thus, 
for example, the fact that an Athlete would lose the opportunity to earn large sums of money 
during a period of Ineligibility, or the fact that the Athlete only has a short time left in a career, 
or the timing of the sporting calendar, would not be relevant factors to be considered in reducing 
the period of Ineligibility under Rule 10.6.1 or 10.6.2. 

[Comment: The criteria for assessing an Athlete’s degree of fault are the same under all Rules where fault is to be 
considered. However, under Rule 10.6.2, no reduction of sanction is appropriate unless, when the degree of fault is 
assessed, the conclusion is that No Significant Fault or Negligence on the part of the Athlete or other Person was 
involved.] 

Financial Consequences: See Consequences of anti-doping rule violations, above. 

Hearing Process: The process encompassing the timeframe between the referral of a matter to 
a hearing panel or tribunal until the issuance and notification of a decision by the hearing panel 
(whether at first instance or on appeal). 

In-Competition: The period commencing at 11:59 p.m. on the day before a Competition in which 
the Athlete is scheduled to participate through to the end of such Competition and the Sample 
collection process related to such Competition.  

[Comment: Having a universally accepted definition for In-Competition provides greater harmonisation among Athletes 
across all sports, eliminates or reduces confusion among Athletes about the relevant timeframe for In-Competition 
Testing, avoids inadvertent Adverse Analytical Findings in between Competitions during an Event, and assists in 
preventing any potential performance enhancement benefits from substances prohibited Out-of-Competition being 
carried over to the Competition period.]   

Independent Observer Program: A team of observers and/or auditors, under the supervision of 
WADA, who observe and may provide guidance on the Doping Control process prior to or during 
certain Events and report on their observations as part of WADA's compliance monitoring 
program.  

Individual Sport: Any sport that is not a team sport, i.e. individual, pursuit, sprint, super sprint and 
mass start Competitions. 

Ineligibility: See Consequences of anti-doping rule violations, above. 

Institutional Independence: Hearing panels on appeal must be fully independent institutionally 
from the Anti-Doping Organisation responsible for Results Management. They must therefore 
not in any way be administered by, connected to or subject to the Anti-Doping Organisation 
responsible for Results Management. 

 

 



 
 

Integrity Code of Conduct: means the code of conduct described in Article 75 of the World 
Athletics Constitution (as amended from time to time). 

International Event: An Event or Competition where the International Olympic Committee, the 
International Paralympic Committee, World Athletics, an International Federation, a Major Event 
Organisation, or another international sport organisation is the ruling body for the Event or 
appoints the technical officials for the Event. For World Athletics, an Event is an International 
Event if it is an International Competition as that term is defined in the Constitution and World 
Athletics Rules.  

International-level Athlete: Athletes who compete in sport at the international level, as defined 
by each international federation, consistent with the International Standard for Testing and 
Investigations. For the sport of Athletics and for the purposes of these Anti-Doping Rules, 
International-Level Athletes are defined as set out in Rule 1.4.4.  

[Comment: Consistent with the International Standard for Testing and Investigations, the international federation is free 
to determine the criteria it will use to classify Athletes as International-Level Athletes, e.g., by ranking, by participation 
in particular International Events, by type of license, etc. However, it must publish those criteria in clear and concise form, 
so that Athletes are able to ascertain quickly and easily when they will become classified as International-Level Athletes. 
For example, if the criteria include participation in certain International Events, the international federation must publish 
a list of those International Events.] 

International Registered Testing Pool: As defined in Rule 5.5.3. 

International Standard: A standard adopted by WADA in support of the World Anti-Doping Code. 
International Standards include any Technical Documents issued pursuant to the International 
Standard. 

Mandatory Information Request: A request that the Integrity Unit may send to a Member 
Federation, requiring the Member Federation to provide specified information by a specified date 
and in such form as the Integrity Unit may require to enable the Integrity Unit to assess the 
Member Federation’s Rule 15 compliance. 

Major Event Organisations: The continental associations of National Olympic Committees and 
other international multi-sport organisations that function as the ruling body for any continental, 
regional or other international event.  

Marker: A compound, group of compounds or biological variable(s) that indicates the Use of a 
Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method. 

Metabolite: Any substance produced by a biotransformation process.  

Member or Member Federation: as defined in the World Athletics Constitution. 

Minimum Reporting Level: The estimated concentration of a Prohibited Substance or its 
Metabolite(s) or Marker(s) in a Sample below which WADA-accredited laboratories should not 
report that Sample as an Adverse Analytical Finding. 

Minor: A natural Person who has not reached the age of 18. 

National Anti-Doping Organisation: The entity(ies) designated by each country as possessing the 
primary authority and responsibility to adopt and implement anti-doping rules, direct the 
collection of Samples, manage test results, and conduct Results Management, all at the national 
level. If this designation has not been made by the competent public authority(ies), the entity will 
be the country’s National Olympic Committee or its designee. 

National-level Athlete: Athletes who compete in sport at the national level, as defined by each 

 

 



 
 

National Anti-Doping Organisation, consistent with the International Standard for Testing and 
Investigations. 

National Event: A sport Event or Competition involving International-Level or National-Level 
Athletes that is not an International Event. 

National Olympic Committee: The organisation recognised by the International Olympic 
Committee. The term National Olympic Committee will also include the national sport 
confederation in those countries where the national sport confederation assumes typical National 
Olympic Committee responsibilities in the anti-doping area. 

No Fault or Negligence: The Athlete or other Person’s establishing that they did not know or 
suspect, and could not reasonably have known or suspected even with the exercise of utmost 
caution, that they had Used or been Administered the Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method 
or otherwise violated and anti-doping rule. Except in the case of a Protected Person or 
Recreational Athlete, for any violation of Rule 2.1, the Athlete must also establish how the 
Prohibited Substance entered their system. 

No Significant Fault or Negligence: The Athlete or other Person’s establishing that any Fault or 
Negligence, when viewed in the totality of the circumstances and taking into account the criteria 
for No Fault or Negligence, was not significant in relation to the anti-doping rule violation. Except 
in the case of a Protected Person or Recreational Athlete, for any violation of Rule 2.1, the Athlete 
must also establish how the Prohibited Substance entered their system. 

Non-Compliance: Where a Member Federation has breached or not complied (or cannot 
evidence compliance) with one or more of its obligations under Rule 15 other than those set out 
in Appendix 9 (Critical Non-Compliance List). 

Operational Independence: This means that (1) board members, staff members, commission 
members, consultants, and officials of the Anti-Doping Organisation with responsibility for 
Results Management or its affiliates (e.g., member federation or confederation), as well as any 
Person involved in the investigation and pre-adjudication of the matter cannot be appointed as 
members and/or clerks (to the extent that such clerk is involved in the deliberation process 
and/or drafting of any decision) of hearing panels of that Anti-Doping Organisation with 
responsibility for Results Management and (2) hearing panels shall be in a position to conduct 
the hearing and decision-making process without interference from the Anti-Doping Organisation 
or any third party. The objective is to ensure that members of the hearing panel or individuals 
otherwise involved in the decision of the hearing panel, are not involved in the investigation of, 
or decisions to proceed with, the case. 

Out-of-Competition: The period(s) defined in Rule 5.5.1. 

Person: A natural person (including any Athlete or Athlete Support Personnel) or an organisation 
or other entity.  

Possession: The actual, physical Possession, or the constructive Possession (which will be found 
only if the Person has exclusive control or intends to exercise control over the Prohibited 
Substance/Method or the premises in which a Prohibited Substance/Method exists); provided, 
however, that if the Person does not have exclusive control over the Prohibited 
Substance/Method or the premises in which a Prohibited Substance/Method exists, constructive 
Possession will only be found if the Person knew about the presence of the Prohibited 
Substance/Method and intended to exercise control over it. Provided, however, there will be no 
anti-doping rule violation based solely on Possession if, prior to receiving notification of any kind 

 

 



 
 

that the Person has committed an anti-doping rule violation, the Person has taken concrete action 
demonstrating that the person never intended to have Possession and has renounced Possession 
by explicitly declaring it to an Anti-Doping Organisation. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary 
in this definition, the purchase (including by any electronic or other means) of a Prohibited 
Substance or Prohibited Method constitutes Possession by the Person who makes the purchase. 

[Comment: Under this definition, anabolic steroids found in an Athlete's car would constitute a violation unless the 
Athlete establishes that someone else used the car; in that event, the Integrity Unit must establish that, even though 
the Athlete did not have exclusive control over the car, the Athlete knew about the anabolic steroids and intended to 
have control over them. Similarly, in the example of anabolic steroids found in a home medicine cabinet under the joint 
control of an Athlete and spouse, the Integrity Unit must establish that the Athlete knew the anabolic steroids were in 
the cabinet and that the Athlete intended to exercise control over them. The act of purchasing a Prohibited Substance 
alone constitutes Possession, even where, for example, the product does not arrive, is received by someone else, or is 
sent to a third-party address.] 

Prohibited List: The list identifying the Prohibited Substances and Prohibited Methods. 

Prohibited Method: Any method so described on the Prohibited List. 

Prohibited Substance: Any substance, or class of substances, so described on the Prohibited List. 

Protected Person: An Athlete or other natural Person who at the time of the anti-doping rule 
violation: (i) has not reached the age of 16; (ii) has not reached the age of 18 and is not included 
in any Registered Testing Pool and has never competed in any International Event in an open 
category; or (iii) for reasons other than age has been determined to lack legal capacity under 
applicable national legislation. 

[Comment: The Code and these Anti-Doping Rules treat Protected Persons differently than other Athletes or Persons in 
certain circumstances based on the understanding that, below a certain age or intellectual capacity, an Athlete or other 
Person may not possess the mental capacity to understand and appreciate the prohibitions against conduct contained 
in the World Anti-Doping Code. This would include, for example, a Paralympic Athlete with a documented lack of legal 
capacity due to an intellectual impairment. The term 'open category' is meant to exclude competition that is limited to 
junior or age group categories.] 

Provisional Hearing: For purposes of Rule 7.4.4, an abbreviated hearing occurring prior to a 
hearing under Rule 8 that provides the Athlete or other Person with notice and an opportunity to 
be heard in written form as described in Rule 7. 

[Comment: A Provisional Hearing is only a preliminary proceeding that may not involve a full review of the facts of the 
case. Following a Provisional Hearing, the Athlete or other Person remains entitled to a subsequent full hearing on the 
merits of the case.] 

Provisional Suspension: See Consequences of anti-doping rule violations, above. 

Publicly Disclose (or Public Disclosure): See Consequences of anti-doping rule violations, above. 
For the purposes of proceedings under Rule 12, Public Disclosure means the dissemination or 
distribution of information to the general public or Persons beyond those Persons entitled to 
earlier notification. 

Recreational Athlete: A natural Person who is so defined by the relevant National Anti-Doping 
Organisation; provided, however, the term does not include any Person who, within the five 
years prior to committing any anti-doping rule violation, has been an International-Level Athlete 
(as defined by each International Federation consistent with the International Standard for 
Testing and Investigations) or National-Level Athlete (as defined by each National Anti-Doping 
Organisation consistent with the International Standard for Testing and Investigations), has 
represented any country in an International Event in an open category or has been included 
within any Registered Testing Pool or other whereabouts information pool maintained by any 

 

 



 
 

International Federation or National Anti-Doping Organisation. 

[Comment: The term 'open category' is meant to exclude competition that is limited to junior or age group categories.] 

Regional Anti-Doping Organisation: A regional entity designated by member countries to 
coordinate and manage delegated areas of their national anti-doping programs, which may 
include the adoption and implementation of anti-doping rules, the planning and collection of 
Samples, the management of results, the review of TUEs, the conduct of hearings, and the conduct 
of Educational programs at a regional level. 

Relevant Anti-Doping Organisation: For the purposes of Rule 15, in respect of a Member 
Federation, any one or more organisation, authority, body or entity operating in the region or 
country of the Member Federation that is responsible or has the authority within that region or 
country for anti-doping in the sport of Athletics or for any matter connected with the 
requirements of this Rule or is otherwise responsible for discharging any of the Member 
Federation's obligations under these Anti-Doping Rules. 

Registered Testing Pool: The pool of highest-priority Athletes established separately at the 
international level by the Integrity Unit, and at the national level by National Anti-Doping 
Organisations, who are subject to focused In-Competition and Out-of-Competition Testing as part 
of that International Federation’s or National Anti-Doping Organisation’s test distribution plan and 
therefore are required to provide whereabouts information as provided in Rule 5.5 and the 
International Standard for Testing and Investigations. 

Results Management: The process encompassing the timeframe between notification as per 
Article 5 of the International Standard for Results Management, or in certain cases (e.g., Atypical 
Finding, Athlete Biological Passport, whereabouts failure), such pre-notification steps expressly 
provided for in Article 5 of the International Standard for Results Management, through the 
charge until the final resolution of the matter, including the end of the hearing process at first 
instance or on appeal (if an appeal was lodged). 

Sample or Specimen: Any biological material collected for the purposes of Doping Control. 

[Comment: It has sometimes been claimed that the collection of blood Samples violates the tenets of certain religious or 
cultural groups. It has been determined that there is no basis for any such claim.] 

Signatories: Those entities accepting the World Anti-Doping Code and agreeing to implement the 
World Anti-Doping Code, as provided in Article 23 of the World Anti-Doping Code. 

Specified Method: See Rule 4.2.2. 

Specified Substance: As defined in Rule 4.2.2. 

Strict Liability: The rule that provides that under Rule 2.1 and Rule 2.2, it is not necessary that 
intent, Fault, Negligence, or knowing Use on the Athlete’s part be demonstrated by the Anti-
Doping Organisation in order to establish an anti-doping rule violation.  

Substance of Abuse: See Rule 4.2.3. 

Substantial Assistance: For purposes of Rule 10.7.1, a Person providing Substantial Assistance 
must: (1) fully disclose in a signed written statement or recorded interview all information they 
possess in relation to anti-doping rule violations or other proceeding described in Rule 10.7.1(a), 
and (2) fully cooperate with the investigation and adjudication of any case or matter related to 
that information, including, for example, presenting testimony at a hearing if requested to do so 
by an Anti-Doping Organisation or hearing panel. Further, the information provided must be 

 

 



 
 

credible and must comprise an important part of any case or proceeding that is initiated or, if no 
case or proceeding is initiated, must have provided a sufficient basis on which a case or 
proceeding could have been brought. 

Tampering: Intentional conduct that subverts the Doping Control process but that would not 
otherwise be included in the definition of Prohibited Methods. Tampering shall include, without 
limitation, offering or accepting a bribe to perform or fail to perform an act, preventing the 
collection of a Sample, affecting or making impossible the analysis of a Sample, falsifying 
documents submitted to an Anti-Doping Organisation or TUE committee or hearing panel, 
procuring false testimony from witnesses, committing any other fraudulent act upon the Anti-
Doping Organisation or hearing body to affect Results Management or the imposition of 
Consequences, and any other similar intentional interference or Attempted interference with 
any aspect of Doping Control. 

[Comment: For example, this Rule would prohibit altering identification numbers on a Doping Control form during 
Testing, breaking the B bottle at the time of B Sample analysis, altering a Sample by the addition of a foreign substance, 
or intimidating or attempting to intimidate a potential witness or a witness who has provided testimony or information 
in the Doping Control process. Tampering includes misconduct that occurs during the Results Management process. See 
Rule 10.9.3(c). However, actions taken as part of a Person's legitimate defence to an anti-doping rule violation charge 
shall not be considered Tampering. Offensive conduct towards a Doping Control official or other Person involved in 
Doping Control that does not otherwise constitute Tampering shall be addressed in the disciplinary rules of sport 
organisations.] 

Target Testing: Selection of specific Athletes for Testing based on criteria set out in the 
International Standard for Testing and Investigations.  

Team sport: A sport in which the substitution of players is permitted during a Competition, i.e. 
relay and mixed relay. 

Technical Document: A document adopted and published by WADA from time to time containing 
mandatory technical requirements on specific anti-doping topics as set forth in an International 
Standard. 

Testing: The parts of the Doping Control process involving test distribution planning, Sample 
collection, Sample handling, and Sample transport to the laboratory. 

Therapeutic: Of or relating to the treatment of a medical condition by remedial agents or 
methods; or providing or assisting in a cure. 

Therapeutic Use Exemption (TUE): A Therapeutic Use Exemption allows an Athlete with a 
medical condition to Use a Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method, but only if the conditions 
set out in Rule 4.4 and the International Standard for Therapeutic Use Exemptions are met. 

Trafficking: Selling, giving, transporting, sending, delivering or distributing (or possessing for any 
such purpose) a Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method (either physically or by any electronic 
or other means) by an Athlete, Athlete Support Personnel or any other Person subject to the 
authority of an Anti-Doping Organisation to any third party; provided, however, this definition will 
not include the actions of 'bona fide' medical personnel involving a Prohibited Substance Used for 
genuine and legal therapeutic purposes or other acceptable justification, and will not include 
actions involving Prohibited Substances that are not prohibited in Out-of-Competition Testing 
unless the circumstances as a whole demonstrate such Prohibited Substances are not intended 
for genuine and legal therapeutic purposes or are intended to enhance sport performance.  

TUE Committee: The panel appointed by the Integrity Unit to consider applications for the grant 
or recognition of TUEs in accordance with Rule 4.4.4(c). The Integrity Unit may appoint 

 

 



 
 

individuals to form such a panel, or it may delegate the appointment of the panel to a suitably 
qualified third party or body. 

Use: The utilisation, application, ingestion, injection or consumption by any means whatsoever of 
any Prohibited Substance or Prohibited Method. 

WADA: The World Anti-Doping Agency. 

Without Prejudice Agreement: For purposes of Rules 10.7.1(a) and 10.8.2, a written agreement 
between an Anti-Doping Organisation and an Athlete or other Person that allows the Athlete or 
other Person to provide information to the Anti-Doping Organisation in a defined time-limited 
setting with the understanding that, if an agreement for Substantial Assistance or a case 
resolution agreement is not finalised, the information provided by the Athlete or other Person in 
this particular setting may not be used by the Anti-Doping Organisation against the Athlete or 
other Person in any Results Management proceeding under the World Anti-Doping Code, and 
that the information provided by the Anti-Doping Organisation in this particular setting may not 
be used by the Athlete or other Person against the Anti-Doping Organisation in any Results 
Management proceeding under the World Anti-Doping Code. Such an agreement will not 
preclude the Anti-Doping Organisation, Athlete or other Person from using any information or 
evidence gathered from any source other than during the specific time-limited setting described 
in the agreement.