Book C – C2.1 

 
 
 
 

TECHNICAL RULES 
 

(In force from 1 November 2019) 
 
 
  

 



 

 

 



Book C – C2.1 

PART I – GENERAL 
(In force from 1 November 2019) 

1. (Rule 100) General 

All International Competitions, as defined in the Generally Applicable Definitions, shall be 
held under the Rules of World Athletics. 

In all competitions, events may be held in a different format from that provided under the 
Technical Rules, but rules giving more rights to the athletes than they would have obtained 
applying the actual Rules, may not be applied. These formats shall be decided or authorised 
by the relevant governing body having the control over the competition. 

In the case of mass participation events held outside the stadium, these Rules should 
normally only be applied in full to those athletes, if any, who are designated as taking part in 
the elite or other defined section of the races such as age group categories for which there 
are placings for awards or prizes. Race organisers should outline in the information provided 
to other athletes which other rules will apply to their participation, particularly those pertaining 
to their safety. 

Note: It is recommended that Members adopt the Rules for the conduct of their own athletics 
competitions.  

Whilst these Rules already contemplate some variations from their strictest applications, it is 
emphasised that competition organisers may go even further in using different formats for 
competitions - the only restriction being that the athlete may not receive more “rights” in such 
circumstances. For example, it is acceptable to reduce the number of trials in a Field Event 
or reduce the time allowed for an athlete to take their trial but not to increase either.  

With respect to mass participation Running and Race Walking Events, it is prescribed that 
these Rules shall only be fully applied to any elite component of the event or any other part 
designated by the organisers where there is a logical reason to do so, e.g. because of 
significant awards or prizes. 

However, race organisers are advised to emphasise in the information provided to all 
participants the rules and procedures that will apply to the various categories, especially in 
relation to safety considerations, particularly when all or part of the race is not closed to 
traffic. This may for example allow athletes (other than those competing in the elite or other 
categories to whom Rule 6.3 of the Technical Rules would apply) to use head or earphones 
when they are running on a closed course but prohibit their use (or at least recommend 
against it) for the slower runners when the course is open to traffic. 

 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  1 



Book C – C2.1 

 
2. (Rule 140)   The Athletics Facility 

Any firm, uniform surface that conforms to the specifications in the Track and Field Facilities 
Manual, may be used for Track and Field Athletics. 

Outdoor competitions 1.1 of the International Competition definition may be held only on 
facilities that hold a World Athletics Class 1 Athletics Facility Certificate. It is recommended 
that, when such facilities are available, outdoor competitions under paragraphs 1.2 to 1.10 of 
the International Competition definition should also be held on these facilities. 

In any case, a World Athletics Class 2 Athletics Facility Certificate shall be required for all 
facilities intended for use for outdoor competitions under paragraphs 1.2 to 1.10 of the 
International Competition definition. 

Note (i): The World Athletics Track and Field Facilities Manual, which is available from the 
World Athletics Office, or may be downloaded from the World Athletics website, contains 
more detailed and defined specifications for the planning and construction of Track and Field 
facilities including further diagrams for track measurement and marking. 

Note (ii): The current standard forms required to be used for the certification application and 
measurement report as well as the Certification System Procedures are available from the 
World Athletics Office, or may be downloaded from the World Athletics website. 

Note (iii): For Road Race Walking, Road Running or Cross Country, Mountain and Trail 
courses, see Rules 54.11, 55.2, 55.3, 56.1-5, and 57.1 of the Technical Rules. 

Note (iv): For the indoor athletics facility, see Rule 41 of the Technical Rules. 

3. (Rule 141)   Age and Sex Categories 

Age Categories 

3.1 Competition under these Rules may be divided into age group classifications as 
follows or as additionally prescribed in the relevant competition regulations or by the 
relevant governing body: 

Under-18 (U18) Men and Women: Any athlete of 16 or 17 years on 31st December in 
the year of the competition. 

Under-20 (U20) Men and Women: Any athlete of 18 or 19 years on 31st December in 
the year of the competition. 

Master Men and Women: Any athlete who has reached their 35th birthday. 

Note (i): All other matters concerning Masters' competitions are referred to the World 
Athletics/WMA Handbook approved by World Athletics and WMA. 

Note (ii): Eligibility, including minimum ages for participation in Competitions, shall be 
subject to the applicable Technical Regulations. 

3.2 An athlete shall be eligible to compete in an age group competition under these Rules 
if they are within the age range specified in the relevant age group classification. An 
athlete must be able to provide proof of their age through presentation of a valid 
passport or other form of evidence as permitted by the applicable regulations for the 

2     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

competition. An athlete who fails or refuses to provide such proof shall not be eligible 
to compete. 

Note: See Eligibility Rules for sanctions for non-compliance with this Rule 3. 

Whilst Rule 3.1 of the Technical Rules defines the age groups in a particular way, it is the 
regulations for each competition which determine which age groups will apply and whether, 
as envisaged by Note (ii), younger athletes can participate.  

Sex Categories 

3.3 Competition under these Rules is divided into men’s, women’s and universal 
classifications. When a mixed competition is conducted outside the stadium or in one 
of the limited cases set out in Rule 9 of the Technical Rules, separate men’s and 
women’s classification results should still be declared or otherwise indicated. When a 
universal event or competition is conducted a single classification result only shall be 
declared. 

3.4 An athlete shall be eligible to compete in men’s (or universal) competition if they 
either were born and, throughout their life, have always been recognised as a male or 
comply with the applicable Regulations issued pursuant to Rule 3.6.1 of the Technical 
Rules and are eligible to compete under the Rules and Regulations. 

3.5 An athlete shall be eligible to compete in women’s (or universal) competition if they 
either were born and, throughout their life, have always been recognised as a female 
or comply with the applicable Regulations issued pursuant to Rule 3.6.2 of the 
Technical Rules and are eligible to compete under the Rules and Regulations. 

3.6 The Council shall approve Regulations to determine the eligibility for:  

3.6.1 men’s competition for males who are female to male Transgender;  

3.6.2 women’s competition for females who are male to female Transgender; and 

3.6.3 women’s competition for female classification (athletes with differences in 
sex development). 

An athlete who fails or refuses to comply with the applicable regulations shall not be 
eligible to compete. 

Note: See Eligibility Rules for sanctions for non-compliance with this Rule 3. 

Universal competition covers events in which men and women participate together without 
separate classification of results as well as relay or team events in which both men and 
women are included in the same teams. 

4. (Rule 142)   Entries 

4.1 Competitions under the Rules are restricted to eligible athletes. 

4.2 The eligibility of an athlete to compete outside of their own country is as set forth in 
Requirements to Compete in International Competitions Rules. Such eligibility shall 
be assumed unless an objection to their status is made to the Technical Delegate(s). 
(See also Rule 8.1 of the Technical Rules.) 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  3 



Book C – C2.1 

Simultaneous Entries 

4.3 If an athlete is entered in both a Track Event and a Field Event, or in more than one 
Field Event taking place simultaneously, the appropriate Referee may, for one round 
of trials at a time, or for each trial in the High Jump and Pole Vault, allow an athlete to 
take their trial in an order different from that decided upon by the draw prior to the 
start of the competition. However, if an athlete subsequently is not present for a 
particular trial, it shall be deemed that they are passing once the period allowed for 
the trial has elapsed. 

Note: In Field Events, the Referee shall not allow an athlete to take a trial in a 
different order in the final round of trials but the Referee may allow an athlete to do so 
during any earlier round of trials. In Combined Events, a change may be allowed in 
any round of trials. 

The Note clarifies that allowing an athlete to take a trial in a different order in the final round 
of trials (irrespective of the number of rounds of trials) because of a clash with another event 
is not permitted. If an athlete is not present in the final round and has not previously indicated 
that they will pass, then the time allowed for their trial will run and if they do not return before 
it expires, then they will be recorded as passing. [See also Rule 25.18 of the Technical Rules 
where a change of order will normally not be made when a replacement trial is awarded - in 
any round of trials.] 

Whilst Rules 4.3 and 26.2 of the Technical Rules provide that an athlete may not attempt the 
second or third trial at any particular height in Vertical Jumps if it has been deemed that they 
have passed an earlier trial at that height, it is suggested that in lower level competitions 
such as children’s and school meets, the competition regulations could be adapted so as to 
allow an athlete to opt to take the second or third trial in such cases. 

Failure to Participate 

4.4 At all competitions under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.6 of the International 
Competition definition, an athlete shall be excluded from participation in all further 
events (including other events in which they are simultaneously participating) in the 
competition, including relays, in cases where: 

4.4.1 final confirmation was given that the athlete would start in an event but then 
failed to participate; 

Note: A fixed time for the final confirmation of participation shall be 
published in advance. 

4.4.2 an athlete qualified in any Qualification Round of an event for further 
participation in that event but then failed to participate further; 

4.4.3 an athlete failed to compete honestly with bona fide effort. The relevant 
Referee will decide on this and the corresponding reference must be made 
in the official results. 

Note: The situation foreseen in Rule 4.4.3 of the Technical Rules will not 
apply to individual events within Combined Events. 

However, a medical certificate, provided by and based on an examination of the 
athlete by the Medical Delegate appointed under Rule 6 of the Competition Rules or, 
if no Medical Delegate has been so appointed, by a medical doctor so designated by 

4     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

the Organisers, may be accepted as sufficient reason to accept that the athlete 
became unable to compete after confirmations closed or after competing in a 
previous round but will be able to compete in further events (except Combined Events 
individual events) on a subsequent day of the competition. Other justifiable reasons 
(e.g. factors independent of the athlete’s own actions, such as problems with the 
official transport system) may, after confirmation, also be accepted by the Technical 
Delegate(s). 

The relevant Referee, once aware of such a situation and is satisfied that the athlete who 
abandoned the race was not competing with a bona fide effort, must make a reference to this 
in the relevant results as “DNF TR4.4.3”. Either in the process of the Referee making such a 
decision or the Jury of the Appeal considering any protest arising from it, reasons for the 
withdrawal or non-participation proposed by or on behalf of the athlete can be considered. 
The Rule sets out the process that should explicitly be followed in the case of a medical 
reason. 

Failure to Report to the Call Room(s) 

4.5 Subject always to any additional sanction under Rule 4.4 of the Technical Rules, and 
except as provided below, an athlete shall be excluded from participation in any event 
in which they are not present in the Call Room(s) at the relevant time as published in 
the Call Room schedule (see Call Room Judges Rule of the Competition Rules). 
They shall be shown in the results as DNS. 

The relevant Referee will decide on this (including whether the athlete may compete 
under protest if a decision cannot be made immediately) and the corresponding 
reference must be made in the official results. 

Justifiable reasons (e.g. factors independent of the athlete’s own actions, such as 
problems with the official transport system or an error in the published Call Room 
schedule) may, after confirmation, be accepted by the Referee and the athlete may 
then be allowed to take part. 

5. (Rule 143)   Clothing, Shoes and Athlete Bibs 

Clothing 

5.1 In all events, athletes must wear clothing which is clean, and designed and worn so 
as not to be objectionable. The clothing must be made of a material which is non-
transparent even if wet. Athletes must not wear clothing which could impede the view 
of the Judges. 

At all competitions under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.6 and 1.7 of the International 
Competition definition, and when representing their Member Federation under 
paragraphs 1.4 and 1.8 of the International Competition definition, athletes shall 
participate in the uniform clothing approved by their Member Federation. The Victory 
Ceremony and any lap of honour are considered part of the competition for this 
purpose. 

Shoes 

5.2 Athletes may compete barefoot or with footwear on one or both feet. The purpose of 
shoes for competition is to give protection and stability to the feet and a firm grip on 
the ground. Such shoes, however, must not be constructed so as to give athletes any 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  5 



Book C – C2.1 

unfair assistance or advantage. Any type of shoe used must be reasonably available 
to all in the spirit of the universality of athletics. 

Note (i): Adapting a shoe to suit the characteristic of a particular athlete’s foot is 
permitted if made in accordance with the general principles of these Rules. 

Note (ii): Where evidence is provided to World Athletics that a type of shoe being 
used in competition does not comply with the Rules or the spirit of them, it may refer 
the shoe for study and if there is non-compliance may prohibit such shoes from being 
used in competition. 

Number of Spikes 

5.3 The sole and heel of the shoes shall be so constructed as to provide for the use of up 
to 11 spikes. Any number of spikes up to 11 may be used but the number of spike 
positions shall not exceed 11. 

Dimensions of Spikes 

5.4 That part of each spike which projects from the sole or the heel shall not exceed 9mm 
except in the High Jump and Javelin Throw, where it shall not exceed 12mm. The 
spike must be so constructed that it will, at least for the half of its length closest to the 
tip, fit through a square sided 4mm gauge. If the track manufacturer or the stadium 
operator mandates a lesser maximum, this shall be applied. 

Note (i): The surface must be suitable for accepting the spikes permitted under this 
Rule. 

Note (ii): For Cross Country competitions, the specific regulations or the Technical 
Delegates may allow an increased length of the sizes of the spikes of the shoes 
depending on the surface. 

The Sole and the Heel 

5.5 The sole and/or heel may have grooves, ridges, indentations or protuberances, 
provided these features are constructed of the same or similar material to the basic 
sole itself. 

In the High Jump and Long Jump, the sole shall have a maximum thickness of 13mm 
and the heel in High Jump shall have a maximum thickness of 19mm. In all other 
events the sole and/or heel may be of any thickness. 

Note: The thickness of the sole and heel shall be measured as the distance between 
the inside top side and the outside under side, including the above-mentioned 
features and including any kind or form of loose inner sole. 

Inserts and Additions to the Shoe 

5.6 Athletes may not use any appliance, either inside or outside the shoe, which will have 
the effect of increasing the thickness of the sole above the permitted maximum, or 
which can give the wearer any advantage which they would not obtain from the type 
of shoe described in the previous paragraphs. 

6     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

Athlete Bibs 

5.7 Every athlete shall be provided with two bibs which, during the competition, shall be 
worn visibly on the front of the torso and back, except in the Jumping Events, where 
one bib may be worn on the front of the torso or back only. Either the athletes’ names 
or other suitable identification will be allowed instead of numbers on any or all of the 
bibs. If numbers are used, they shall correspond with the number allocated to the 
athlete on the start list or in the programme. If track suits are worn during the 
competition, bibs shall be worn on the track suit in a similar manner. 

5.8 No athlete shall be allowed to take part in any competition without displaying the 
appropriate bib(s) and/or identification. 

5.9 These bibs must be worn as issued and may not be cut, folded or obscured in any 
way. In running or walking events of 10,000 metres and longer, the bibs may be 
perforated to assist the circulation of air, but the perforation must not be made on any 
of the lettering or numerals which appear on them. 

5.10 Where a Photo Finish System is in operation, the Organisers may require athletes to 
wear additional number identification of an adhesive type on the side of their shorts or 
lower body. 

5.11 If an athlete does not follow this Rule in any way and: 

5.11.1 refuses the direction of the relevant Referee to comply; or 

5.11.2 participates in the competition, 

   they shall be disqualified. 

Rule 5.1 of the Technical Rules should be interpreted widely in terms of what “might impede 
the view of the judges”, including athletes wearing their hair in a particular way. 

Rule 5.11 of the Technical Rules prescribes the sanction if any aspect of Rule 5 of the 
Technical Rules is not followed. It is expected however that where possible the relevant 
officials should request and encourage the athlete to comply and to advise them of the 
consequence if they do not. But where an athlete does not follow an aspect of the Rule 
during competition and it is not practical for an official to request compliance that 
disqualification may, or will, follow. 

It is a responsibility of the Starters Assistants and Umpires (for Track and Out of Stadium 
Events) and the Judges (for Field Events) to be vigilant on these matters and report any 
apparent breaches to the relevant Referee. 

6. (Rule 144)   Assistance to Athletes 

Medical Examination and Assistance 

6.1 Medical examination / treatment and/or physiotherapy may be provided either on the 
competition area itself by the official medical staff appointed by the Organisers and 
identified by armbands, vests or similar distinctive apparel or in designated medical 
treatment areas outside the competition area by accredited team medical personnel 
specifically approved by the Medical or Technical Delegate(s) for the purpose. In 
neither case shall the intervention delay the conduct of the competition or an athlete's 
trial in the designated order. Such attendance or assistance by any other person, 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  7 



Book C – C2.1 

whether immediately before competition, once athletes have left the Call Room or 
during competition, is assistance. 

  Note: The competition area, which normally also has a physical barrier, is defined for 
this purpose as the area where the competition is being staged and which has an 
access restricted to the competing athletes and personnel authorised in accordance 
with the relevant rules and regulations. 

6.2 Any athlete giving or receiving assistance from within the competition area during an 
event (including under Rules 17.14, 17.15, 54.10 and 55.8 of the Technical Rules) 
shall be warned by the Referee and advised that, if there is any repetition, they will be 
disqualified from that event. 

Note: In cases under Rule 6.3.1 of the Technical Rules, disqualification may be made 
without warning. 

Assistance not Allowed 

6.3 For the purpose of this Rule, the following examples shall be considered assistance, 
and are therefore not allowed: 

6.3.1 Pacing in races by persons not participating in the same race, by athletes 
lapped or about to be lapped or by any kind of technical device (other than 
those permitted under Rule 6.4.4 of the Technical Rules). 

6.3.2 Possession or use of video recorders, radios, CD, radio transmitters, 
mobile phone or similar devices in the competition area.  

6.3.3 Except for shoes complying with Rule 5 of the Technical Rules, the use of 
any technology or appliance that provides the user with an advantage 
which they would not have obtained using the equipment specified in, or 
permitted by, the Rules.  

6.3.4 The use of any mechanical aid, unless the athlete can establish on the 
balance of probabilities that the use of an aid would not provide them with 
an overall competitive advantage over an athlete not using such aid. 

6.3.5 Provision of advice or other support by any official of the competition not 
related to or required by their specific role in the competition at the time 
(e.g., coaching advice, indication of the take-off point in a jumping event 
except to indicate a failure in Horizontal Jumps, time or distance gaps in a 
race etc.). 

6.3.6 Receiving physical support from another athlete (other than helping to 
recover to a standing position) that assists in making forward progression in 
a race. 

Assistance Allowed 

6.4 For the purpose of this Rule, the following shall not be considered assistance, and 
are therefore allowed: 

6.4.1 Communication between the athletes and their coaches not placed in the 
competition area. 

In order to facilitate this communication and not to disturb the staging of the 

8     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

competition, a place in the stands, close to the competition area of each 
Field Event, should be reserved to the athletes' coaches.  

Note: Coaches and other persons otherwise complying with Rules 54.10 
and 55.8 of the Technical Rules may communicate with their athlete(s). 

6.4.2 Medical examination / treatment and/or physiotherapy necessary to enable 
an athlete to participate or continue participation once on the competition 
area under Rule 6.1 of the Technical Rules. 

6.4.3 Any kind of personal safeguard (e.g. bandage, tape, belt, support, wrist 
cooler, breathing aid etc.) for protection and/or medical purposes. The 
Referee, in conjunction with the Medical Delegate, shall have the authority 
to verify any case should the Referee judge that to be desirable. (See also 
Rules 32.4 and 32.5 of the Technical Rules.) 

6.4.4 Heart rate or speed distance monitors or stride sensors or similar devices 
carried or worn personally by athletes during an event, provided that such 
device cannot be used to communicate with any other person. 

6.4.5 Viewing by athletes competing in Field Events, of images of previous 
trial(s), recorded on their behalf by persons not placed in the competition 
area (see Note to Rule 6.1 of the Technical Rules). The viewing device or 
images taken from it must not be taken into the competition area.  

6.4.6 Hats, gloves, shoes, items of clothing provided to athletes at official stations 
or when otherwise approved by the relevant Referee. 

6.4.7 Receiving physical support from an official or other person designated by 
the organisers to recover to a standing position or to access medical 
assistance. 

6.4.8 Electronic lights or similar appliance indicating progressive times during a 
race, including of a relevant record.  

Rule 6 of the Technical Rules has been the subject of constant change in recent years to 
reflect the way in which athletics is conducted, to respect the role of coaches, to manage 
innovation and new products, etc. World Athletics will continue to respond to new products 
and trends as soon as they become common place during events and competitions. 

Changes to these rules are designed to facilitate the athletes’ participation in the competition 
as much as possible and to reduce unnecessary conflict between athletes/coaches and the 
officials. Each of these rules should be interpreted in this light whilst always ensuring the 
competition is conducted fairly to all. 

Rule 6.3.5 of the Technical Rules however makes it clear that the officials should not assist 
any athlete beyond what is required of their role – and specifically states as an example that 
officials should not provide details of the take-off position in jumping events, other than for 
the purpose of indicating the point of “impact” in a foul jump in Horizontal Jumps. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  9 



Book C – C2.1 

7. (Rule 145)   Effect of Disqualification 

Disqualification resulting from an infringement of a Technical Rule (other than Rule 
18.5 of the Competition Rules and Rule 16.5 of the Technical Rules) 

7.1 If an athlete is disqualified in an event for an infringement of a Technical Rule (except 
under Rule 18.5 of the Competition Rules or Rule 16.5 of the Technical Rules) any 
performance accomplished in the same round of that event up to the time of the 
disqualification shall not be valid. However, performances accomplished in a previous 
round of that event shall remain valid. Such disqualification from an event shall not 
prevent an athlete from taking part in any further event in that competition. 

Disqualification resulting from exclusion under Rule 18.5 of the Competition Rules 
(including under Rule 16.5 of the Technical Rules) 

7.2 If an athlete is excluded from competition under Rule 18.5 of the Competition Rules, 
they shall be disqualified from that event. If the athlete's second warning occurs in a 
different event, they shall be disqualified only from the second event. Any 
performance accomplished in the same round of that event up to the time of the 
disqualification shall not be valid. However, performances accomplished in a previous 
round of that event, other previous events or previous individual events of a 
Combined Event shall remain valid. Such disqualification shall prevent an athlete 
from taking part in all further events, (including individual events of a Combined 
Event, other events in which they are simultaneously participating and relays) in that 
competition. 

7.3 If a relay team is excluded from competition under Rule 18.5 of the Competition 
Rules, it shall be disqualified from that event. Performances accomplished in a 
previous round of that event shall remain valid. Such disqualification shall not prevent 
any athlete or relay from that team taking part in all further events (including individual 
events of a Combined Event, other events in which they are simultaneously 
participating and relays) in that competition. 

7.4 If the offence is considered serious, the Competition Director shall report it to the 
relevant governing body for consideration of further disciplinary action. 

8. (Rule 146)   Protests and Appeals 

8.1 Protests concerning the status of an athlete to participate in a competition must be 
made, prior to the commencement of such competition, to the Technical Delegate(s). 
Once the Technical Delegate(s) make(s) a decision, there shall be a right of appeal to 
the Jury of Appeal. If the matter cannot be settled satisfactorily prior to the 
competition, the athlete shall be allowed to compete "under protest" and the matter 
be referred to the relevant governing body. 

8.2 Protests concerning the result or conduct of an event shall be made within 30 minutes 
of the official announcement of the result of that event. 

The Organisers of the competition shall be responsible for ensuring that the time of 
the announcement of all results is recorded. 

8.3 Any protest shall be made orally to the Referee by an athlete, by someone acting on 
their behalf or by an official representative of a team. Such person or team may 
protest only if they are competing in the same round of the event to which the protest 
(or subsequent appeal) relates (or are competing in a competition in which a team 

10     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

points score is being conducted). To arrive at a fair decision, the Referee should 
consider any available evidence which they think necessary, including a film or 
picture produced by an official video recorder, or any other available video evidence. 
The Referee may decide on the protest or may refer the matter to the Jury of Appeal. 
If the Referee makes a decision, there shall be a right of appeal to the Jury. Where 
the Referee is not accessible or available, the protest should be made to them 
through the Technical Information Centre. 

8.4 In a Track Event, 

8.4.1 if an athlete makes an immediate oral protest against having been charged 
with a false start, a Track Referee may, if they are in any doubt, allow the 
athlete to compete “under protest” in order to preserve the rights of all 
concerned. Competing “under protest” shall not be allowed if the false start 
was indicated by a World Athletics certified Start Information System, 
unless for any reason the Referee determines that the information provided 
by the System is obviously inaccurate.  

8.4.2 a protest may be based on the failure of the Starter to recall a false start or, 
under Rule 16.5 of the Technical Rules, to abort a start. The protest may be 
made only by, or on behalf of, an athlete who has completed the race. If the 
protest is upheld, any athlete who committed the false start or whose 
conduct should have led to the start being aborted, and who was subject to 
warning or disqualification according to Rules 16.5, 16.7, 16.8 or 39.8.3 of 
the Technical Rules, shall be warned or disqualified. Whether or not there 
may be any warning or disqualification, the Referee shall have the authority 
to declare the event or part of the event void and that it or part of it shall be 
held again if in their opinion justice demands it. 

Note: The right of protest and appeal in Rule 8.4.2 of the Technical Rules 
shall apply whether or not a Start Information System is used.  

8.4.3 if a protest or appeal is based on an athlete’s incorrect exclusion from an 
event due to a false start and it is upheld after the completion of the race, 
then the athlete should be afforded the opportunity to run on their own to 
record a time in the event and consequently, if applicable, to be advanced 
to subsequent rounds. No athlete should be advanced to a subsequent 
round without competing in all rounds unless the Referee or Jury of Appeal 
determines otherwise in the particular circumstances of the case, e.g. the 
shortness of time before the next round or the length of the race. 

Note: This Rule may also be applied by the Referee, the Jury of Appeal in 
other circumstances where it is deemed appropriate (see Rule 17.2 of the 
Technical Rules). 

8.4.4 when a protest is made by or on behalf of an athlete or team which did not 
finish a race, the Referee must first ascertain whether the athlete or team 
was or should have been disqualified for a breach of the Rules unrelated to 
the matter raised in the protest. Should that be the case the protest shall be 
dismissed. 

 When the Start Referee decides on an immediate oral protest made by an athlete for 
being charged with a false start, they have to consider all the available data and in 
case of only a reasonable possibility that the athlete’s protest may be valid, they 
should allow the athlete to compete under protest. After the race, a final decision 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  11 



Book C – C2.1 

must be taken by the Referee, a decision that may be subject of an appeal to the 
Jury. But to be clear, the Referee should not allow an athlete to compete under 
protest if the false start has been detected by a Start Information System that appears 
to be working properly or in cases where it is very clear by visual observation that the 
athlete has committed a false start and there is no valid reason to allow the protest. 

These rules not only apply where a Starter failed to recall a false start but where also a 
Starter failed to correctly “abort” a start. In both cases the Referee must consider all factors 
involved in the particular case and must decide if the race (or part of it) has to be re-held.  

Giving two examples of extreme situations, it will not be logical or necessary to re-run a 
Marathon race in a case where an athlete who finishes was responsible for a non-recalled 
false start. But the same will probably not be the case in a sprint event where an athlete was 
responsible for a non-recalled false start as this may have affected the start and subsequent 
race of other athletes. 

On the other hand, if for example in a preliminary round, or perhaps even more so in a race 
within a Combined Event, it was clear that only one or some athletes were disadvantaged by 
a failure to recall a false start or to abort a start, a Referee could decide that only those 
athletes be given the opportunity to run again – and if so under what conditions.  

Rule 8.4.3 of the Technical Rules covers the situation in which an athlete is wrongly given a 
false start and excluded from a race. 

8.5 In a Field Event, if an athlete makes an immediate oral protest against having a trial 
judged as a failure, the Referee of the event may, if they are in any doubt, order that 
the trial be measured and the result recorded, in order to preserve the rights of all 
concerned. 

If the protested trial occurred: 

8.5.1 during the first three rounds of trials of a horizontal Field Event in which 
more than eight athletes are competing, and the athlete would advance to 
any subsequent rounds of trials only if the protest or subsequent appeal 
was upheld; or 

8.5.2 in a vertical Field Event, where the athlete would advance to a higher 
height only if the protest or subsequent appeal is upheld, 

the Referee may, if they are in any doubt, allow the athlete to continue competing 
“under protest” to preserve the rights of all concerned.  

In cases where the Referee is sure that the decision of the Judges is correct, particularly by 
their own observation or advice received from a Video Referee, the athlete should not be 
allowed to continue.  

But when considering whether to order the measurement of a trial which is the subject of an 
immediate oral protest the Referee should: 

a. not do so in cases where there was a clear breach of the Rules, for example 
in the long jump a clear mark made in the plasticine by the athlete in question 
or in a throwing event where the implement has clearly landed outside the 
sector; 

b. always do so (and immediately so as to not delay the competition) in cases 
where there is any doubt. 

12     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

The good operation of this Rule means that the Judge with the spike or prism should always 
mark the point of landing (except in throwing events where the implement clearly lands 
outside the sector) even when they see a red flag. Apart from the possibility that the athlete 
may make an immediate oral protest, it is also possible that the Judge with the flags may 
have incorrectly or accidentally raised the wrong one. 

8.6 The protested performance of the athlete and any other performance achieved by 
them while competing “under protest” will become valid only if a subsequent decision 
to that effect is made by the Referee or an appeal to the Jury of Appeal is made and it 
is upheld.  

In Field Events where, as a result of an athlete competing “under protest”, another 
athlete is allowed to continue in the competition when they would otherwise not have 
done so, such athlete’s performances and eventual results will remain valid 
irrespective of whether the “under protest” athlete’s immediate oral protest is 
successful. 

Rule 8.6 of the Technical Rules applies to all events, not only to Field Events. 

8.7 An appeal to the Jury of Appeal must be made within 30 minutes: 

8.7.1 of the official announcement of the amended result of an event arising from 
the decision made by the Referee; or 

8.7.2 of the advice being given to those making the protest, where there is no 
amendment of any result. 

 It shall be in writing, signed by the athlete, by someone acting on their behalf or by an 
official representative of a team and shall be accompanied by a deposit of USD 100, 
or its equivalent, which will be forfeited if the appeal is not allowed. Such athlete or 
team may appeal only if they are competing in the same round of the event to which 
the appeal relates (or are competing in a competition on which a team points score is 
being conducted). 

Note: The relevant Referee shall, after their decision on a protest, immediately inform 
the TIC of the time of the decision. If the Referee was unable to communicate this 
orally to the relevant team(s) /athlete (s), the official time of the announcement will be 
that of posting of the amended result or of the decision at the TIC. 

8.8 The Jury of Appeal shall consult all relevant persons, including the relevant Referee 
(except when their decision is to be fully maintained by the Jury of Appeal). If the Jury 
of Appeal is in doubt, other available evidence may be considered. If such evidence, 
including any available video evidence, is not conclusive, the decision of the Referee 
or the Chief Race Walking Judge shall be upheld. 

8.9 The Jury of Appeal may reconsider a decision if new conclusive evidence is 
presented, provided the new decision is still applicable. Normally, such re-
consideration may be undertaken only prior to the Victory Ceremony for the 
applicable event, unless the relevant governing body determines that circumstances 
justify otherwise. 

In certain circumstances, the Judges (Rule 19.2 of the Competition Rules), the Referee (Rule 
18.6 of the Competition Rules) and the Jury (Rule 8.9 of the Technical Rules) can each 
reconsider a decision made by them – if it is still applicable and practical to do so.  

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  13 



Book C – C2.1 

8.10 Decisions involving points which are not covered by the Rules shall be reported 
subsequently by the Chairman of the Jury of Appeal to the Chief Executive Officer of 
World Athletics. 

8.11 The decision of the Jury of Appeal (or of the Referee in the absence of a Jury of 
Appeal or if no appeal to the Jury is made) shall be final and there shall be no further 
right of appeal, including to CAS. 

9. (Rule 147)   Mixed Competition 

9.1 Universal competitions such as relays or other team events in which men and women 
compete together or events in which men and women compete for a single 
classification are permitted in accordance with the applicable regulations of the 
relevant body. 

9.2 Other than under Rule 9.1 for all other competitions held completely in the stadium, 
mixed events between male and female participants shall not normally be permitted. 

However, the following may be permitted in all competitions except those held under 
paragraphs 1.1 to 1.3 and 1. 6 of the International Competition definition. In the case 
of competitions held under paragraphs 1.4, 1.5 and 1.7 to 1.10 of the International 
Competition definition such competition shall always be allowed in Field Events and 
in events per Rule 9.2.1 of the Technical Rules, if specifically permitted by the 
relevant Area Association: 

9.2.1 mixed stadium competition in races of 5000m or longer but it is permitted 
only when there are insufficient athletes of one or both sexes competing to 
justify the conduct of separate races. The sex of each athlete shall be 
shown in the result. Such races shall not, in any case, be conducted so as 
to allow athletes of one sex to be paced or assisted by athletes of another 
sex. 

9.2.2 Field Events for men and women may be conducted simultaneously at one 
or more event sites. Separate result cards shall be used and results 
declared for each sex. Each round of trials of such events may be 
conducted either by calling all athletes of one sex followed by the other or 
by alternating them. For the purposes of Rule 25.17 of the Technical Rules, 
all athletes shall be regarded as if they were of the same sex. Where 
Vertical Jumps are conducted on a single event site, Rules 26 to 28 of the 
Technical Rules must be strictly applied, including that the bar must 
continue to be raised in accordance with a single set of previously 
announced increments for the entire competition. 

The intent of Rule 9.2.1 of the Technical Rules is to facilitate the conduct of races of 5000m 
or longer, when small numbers of athletes of one or both sexes are entered in the case of 
longer events (i.e. a track Race Walk of 10,000m or more), where timetabling constraints 
make it difficult to program separate races. The intent of the Rule is not to provide 
opportunity for women to compete in races against men to achieve potentially better 
performance conditions.  

To be clear, mixed competition in Field Events and in races of 5000m or longer is: 

a. permitted in all national competitions, subject only to the rules of the 
applicable federation. [No additional permission from an Area Association is 
required]; 

14     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

b. permitted in a competition held under paragraphs 1.9 and 1.10 of the 
International Competition definition if specifically permitted by the relevant 
Area Association; 

c. not permitted in a competition held under paragraphs 1.1 to 1.8 of the 
International Competition definition unless in the case of Field Events the 
applicable regulations for the competition so provide. 

There are also restrictions on the recognition of World Records in mixed competitions – see 
Rules 31.1 (with reference to track races of 5000m and longer) and 32 (with reference to 
women's road races) of the Competition Rules. Rule 32 of the Competition Rules Note (ii) 
provides guidance on how a women only race can be achieved (enabling a women only 
record to be set) in a situation where both men and women are or might be competing. 

[See also Rules 25.2 and 25.3 of the Competition Rules] 

10. (Rule 148)   Surveying and Measurements 

10.1 The accuracy of the markings and installations for athletics facilities under Rules 2 
and 11.2 of the Technical Rules shall be checked by an appropriately qualified 
surveyor who shall furnish appropriate certificates together with details of any check 
measurements made to the relevant body and/or the facility owner or operator. They 
shall be given full access to stadium plans and drawings and the latest measurement 
report for the purpose of this verification. 

10.2 For Track and Field Events in competitions under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.6 of 
the International Competition definition, all measurements shall be made with a 
calibrated steel tape or bar or with a scientific measuring device. The steel tape, bar 
or scientific measuring device shall be manufactured and calibrated according to 
international standards. The accuracy of the measuring equipment used in the 
competition shall have been verified by an appropriate organisation accredited by the 
national measurement authority. 

At competitions other than those held under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.6 of the 
International Competition definition, fibreglass tapes may also be used. 

Note: Concerning acceptance of Records, see Rule 31.17.1 of the Competition Rules. 

11. (Rule 149)   Validity of Performances 

11.1 No performance accomplished by an athlete will be valid unless it is accomplished 
during an official competition organised in conformity with the Rules. 

11.2 Performances in events normally conducted in the stadium, made outside traditional 
athletics facilities (such as those held in town squares, other sporting facilities, 
beaches, etc.) or on temporary facilities built within a stadium shall be valid and 
recognised for all purposes, if they are made subject to all of the following conditions: 

11.2.1 the relevant governing body as provided in Rules 2 to 3 of the Competition 
Rules has issued a permit for the event; 

11.2.2 a qualified panel of National Technical Officials are appointed to and 
officiate at the event; 

11.2.3 where applicable, equipment and implements in conformity with the Rules 
are used; and 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  15 



Book C – C2.1 

11.2.4 the event is conducted in a competition area or facility in conformity with the 
Rules and in respect of which a survey has been made in accordance with 
Rule 10 of the Technical Rules before the event and, where possible, on 
the day of the event. 

Note: The current standard forms required to be used for reporting on the conformity 
of the competition area or facility are available from the World Athletics Office, or may 
be downloaded from the World Athletics website. 

When a competition described in Rule 11.2 of the Technical Rules is held over more than 
one day, the survey should be made on the day of the first event. In either case if the 
surveyor can be satisfied that there will be no movement of alteration to the facilities being 
surveyed, the survey may be completed up to two days prior to the day of the first event. 

11.3 Performances made in accordance with these Rules in Qualification Rounds, in 
deciding ties in High Jump and Pole Vault, in any event or part of an event which is 
subsequently decreed void under the provisions of Rule 18.7 of the Competition 
Rules, or Rules 8.4.2, 17.2 or 25.20 of the Technical Rules, in Race Walking events 
in which Rule 54.7.3 of the Technical Rules is applied and the athlete is not 
disqualified or in individual events in Combined Events competitions, regardless of 
whether or not the athlete completes the whole Combined Events competition, will 
normally be regarded as valid for purposes such as statistics, records, rankings and 
the achievement of entry standards. 

World Athletics has exceptionally determined that solely for the purpose of determining 
whether an athlete has achieved the entry standard for a Combined Events competition: 

“The conditions shall have been complied with in each of the individual events, except 
that, in events where wind velocity is measured, at least one of the following conditions 
shall be satisfied: 

a. The velocity in any individual event shall not exceed plus 4 metres per 
second. 

b. The average velocity (based on the algebraic sum of the wind velocities, as 
measured for each individual event, divided by the number of such events) 
shall not exceed plus 2 metres per second.” 

12. (Rule 150)   Video Recording 

In competitions held under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2 and 1.3 of the International Competition 
definition and, whenever possible, in other competitions, an official video recording of all 
events to the satisfaction of the Technical Delegate(s) shall be made. It should be sufficient 
to support the role of the Video Referee when appointed and in other situations to 
demonstrate the accuracy of performances and any violation of the Rules. 

Specific information is provided in the Video Recording and Video Referee Guidelines, which 
may be downloaded from the World Athletics website. 

The appointment at any competition of a Video Referee will significantly affect the practical 
oversight of many aspects of those competitions at which sufficient video collection and 
replay systems are available. 

The Video Referee will generally be able to act proactively in respect of the track events (e.g. 
the start, running inside the lane line around the curve, jostling and obstruction, breaking 
from lanes too early, relay changeovers). If the number of cameras and equipment is 

16     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

sufficient to play a similar role for some or all of the Field Events, they can undertake a 
similar role, but usually in a more reactive fashion when the on-field Referee requests further 
examination or review of a specific incident. 

In the case of the Track Events, the Video Referee will observe the races on one or more 
screens in the video room and then based on either their own observations or upon referral 
from a Referee or Chief Umpire in the competition area, examine one or more particular 
issues by looking at any replayed footage that might be available. If it is clear as a result that 
there has been an infringement of the Rules, then they should take the appropriate decision 
and convey it to the Track Referee and the Chief Photo Finish Judge. Similarly, if an Umpire 
or trackside Referee has reported a potential infringement, it should be checked by the Video 
Referee and the appropriate advice provided and decision taken. 

In addition, official video footage will as in the past continue to be used to assist in dealing 
with protests and appeals.  

It is becoming common for experienced companies to provide an existing service for 
competitions rather than Organisers setting up their own. However, either option can be 
used. 

13. (Rule 151)   Scoring 

In a match where the result is to be determined by the scoring of points, the method of 
scoring shall be agreed by all the competing Members or teams before the start of the match, 
unless provided for in the applicable regulations. 

 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  17 



Book C – C2.1 

PART II - TRACK EVENTS 
(In force from 1 November 2019) 

Rules 17.2, 17.6 (except under Rules 54.12 and 55.9), 17.14, 18.2, 19 and 21.1 of the 
Technical Rules also apply to Parts VI, VII, and VIII of the Technical Rules. 

14. (Rule 160)   Track Measurements 

14.1 The length of a standard running track shall be 400m. It shall consist of two parallel 
straights and two bends whose radii shall be equal. The inside of the track shall be 
bordered by a kerb of suitable material that should be coloured white, with a height of 
50mm to 65mm and a width of 50mm to 250mm. The kerb on the two straights may 
be omitted and a white line 50mm wide substituted. 

If a section of the kerb on a bend has to be temporarily removed for Field Events, its 
place on the surface beneath shall be marked with a white line 50mm in width and by 
cones or flags, minimum height 0.15m, placed on the white line so that the edge of 
the base of the cone or flag pole coincides with the edge of the white line closest to 
the track, and placed at intervals not exceeding 4m (2m for the curved part of an 
inside steeplechase diversion). (Flags shall be placed at an angle of 60° with the 
ground away from the track.) This (including also the option of temporary kerbing) 
shall also apply to the curved section of the steeplechase track where athletes divert 
from the main track to negotiate the water jump, to the outer half of the track in the 
case of starts according to Rule 17.5.2 of the Technical Rules and, optionally, to the 
straights, in this latter case, at intervals not exceeding 10m. 

Note: All points on lane 1 inside lane line at which the track changes from a curve to a 
straight or a straight to a curve shall be marked, in a distinctive colour 50mm x 50mm 
on the white line, by the surveyor and a cone placed at such points during a race. 

14.2 The measurement shall be taken 0.30m outward from the kerb or, where no kerb 
exists on a bend (or the diversion from the track for the steeplechase water jump), 
0.20m from the line marking the inside of the track. 

 

 

 

Figure TR14 (Rule 160) - Track measurements (infield view) 

  

18     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

14.3 The distance of the race shall be measured from the edge of the start line farther from 
the finish to the edge of the finish line nearer to the start. 

14.4 In all races up to and including 400m, each athlete shall have a separate lane, with a 
width of 1.22m ± 0.01m, including the lane line on the right, marked by white lines 
50mm in width. All lanes shall be of the same nominal width. The inner lane shall be 
measured as stated in Rule 14.2, but the remaining lanes shall be measured 0.20m 
from the outer edges of the lines. 

Note: For all tracks constructed before 1 January 2004 for all such races, the lane 
may have a width of maximum 1.25m. However, when such a track is fully resurfaced, 
the lane width shall comply with this Rule. 

14.5 In International Competitions under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.6 of the 
International Competition definition, the track should allow for eight lanes minimum. 

14.6 The lateral inclination of tracks towards the inside edge should not exceed 1:100 (1%) 
unless special circumstances exist which justify World Athletics providing an 
exemption, and the overall downward inclination in the running direction shall not 
exceed 1:1000 (0.1%). 

14.7 Full technical information on track construction, layout and marking is contained in the 
World Athletics Track and Field Facilities Manual. This Rule gives basic principles, 
which must be followed. 

When any section of the kerb is temporarily removed this should be kept to a minimum, 
sufficient to enable the Field Events to function fairly and efficiently. 

Colours to use for marking the track are indicated on the Track Marking Plan included in the 
World Athletics Track and Field Facilities Manual.  

15. (Rule 161)   Starting Blocks 

15.1 Starting blocks shall be used for all races up to and including 400m (including the first 
leg of the 4 × 200m, the Medley Relay and 4 × 400m) and shall not be used for any 
other race. When in position on the track, no part of the starting block shall overlap 
the start line or extend into another lane, with the exception that, provided there is no 
obstruction to any other athlete, the rear part of the frame may extend beyond the 
outer lane line. 

15.2 Starting blocks shall comply with the following general specifications: 

15.2.1 The starting blocks shall consist of two foot plates, against which the 
athlete's feet are pressed in the starting position and which shall be 
mounted on a rigid frame. They shall be entirely rigid in construction and 
shall give no unfair advantage to the athlete. The frame shall in no way 
obstruct the athlete's feet as they leave the blocks. 

15.2.2 The foot plates shall be sloped to suit the starting position of the athlete, 
and may be flat or slightly concave. The surface of the foot plates shall 
accommodate the spikes in the athlete's shoes, either by using slots or 
recesses in the face of the foot plate or by covering the surface of the foot 
plate with suitable material permitting the use of spiked shoes. 

15.2.3 The mounting of the foot plates on the frame may be adjustable, but it shall 
allow no movement during the actual start. In all cases, the foot plates shall 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  19 



Book C – C2.1 

be adjustable forward or backward in relation to each other. The 
adjustments shall be secured by firm clamps or a locking mechanism, 
which can be easily and quickly operated by the athlete. 

15.2.4 They shall be fixed to the track by a number of pins or spikes, arranged to 
cause the minimum possible damage to the track. The arrangement shall 
permit the starting blocks to be quickly and easily removed. The number, 
thickness and length of pins or spikes depend on the track construction. 
The anchorage shall permit no movement during the actual start. 

15.2.5 When an athlete uses their own starting blocks, they shall comply with 
these Rules but otherwise may be of any design or construction, provided 
that they do not interfere with other athletes. 

15.3 In competitions held under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.6 of the International 
Competition definition and for any performances submitted for ratification as a World 
Record under Rules 32 or 34 of the Competition Rules, the starting blocks shall be 
linked to a World Athletics certified Start Information System. This system is strongly 
recommended for other competitions. 

  Note: In addition, an automatic recall system, within the Rules, may also be used. 

15.4 In competitions held under paragraphs 1.1 to 1.6 of the International Competition 
definition, athletes shall use starting blocks provided by the Organisers of the 
competition. In other competitions on synthetic surfaced tracks the Organisers may 
insist that only starting blocks provided by them may be used. 

This Rule should also be interpreted so that: 

(a) no part of the frame or footplates can overlap a start line; 

(b) the frame only (but not any part of the footplate) can extend into the outer 
lane provided there is no obstruction. This reflects the long standing 
practice of athletes at the start of races on a bend placing their blocks at an 
angle to run the most direct line after the start. 

The use of lights, by deaf or hearing impaired athletes only, at the start of races is allowed 
and is not considered assistance. It should however be the obligation of the athlete or their 
team for the financing and supply of such equipment and its compatibility with the start 
system in use, unless at a particular meeting where there is an appointed technical partner 
who can provide it. 

16. (Rule 162)   The Start 

16.1 The start of a race shall be denoted by a white line 50mm wide. In all races not run in 
lanes, the start line shall be curved, so that all the athletes start the same distance 
from the finish. Starting positions in events at all distances shall be numbered from 
left to right, facing the direction of running. 

Note (i): In the case of events starting outside the stadium, the start line may be up to 
0.30m in width and may be of any colour contrasting distinctively with the surface of 
the start area. 

Note (ii): The 1500m start line, or any other curved start line, may be extended out 
from the outside lane to the extent that the same synthetic surface is available. 

20     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

It is anticipated that, in order to efficiently complete the start procedures and for larger 
meetings to appropriately introduce the competitors in the race the athletes, when 
assembled, should be standing and facing in the direction of the race. 

16.2 At all International Competitions, except as noted below, the commands of the Starter 
shall be given in their own language, in English or in French. 

16.2.1 In races up to and including 400m (including 4 × 200m, the Medley Relay 
as defined in Rule 24.1 of the Technical Rules and 4 × 400m), the 
commands shall be "On your marks" and "Set". 

16.2.2 In races longer than 400m (except 4 × 200m, the Medley Relay and 
4 × 400m), the command shall be "On your marks". 

16.2.3 In any race when, under Rule 16.5 of the Technical Rules, the Starter is not 
satisfied that all is ready for the start to proceed after the athletes are on 
their marks or they otherwise abort the start, the command shall be “Stand 
up”. 

 All races shall normally be started by the report of the Starter's gun held upwards. 

Note: In competitions under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.5 and 1.9 of the International 
Competition definition, the commands of the Starter shall be given in English only. 

The Starter must not initiate the start procedures before they are sure that the relevant timing 
team is ready as well as the Judges at the finish and in races up to and including 200m, the 
Wind Gauge Operator. The communication process between the start and the finish area 
and the timing team varies according to the level of the competition. In events organised 
under paragraphs 1.1 to 1.6 of the International Competition definition and many other high 
level meetings there is invariably a service company responsible for the electronic timing and 
the Start Information System. In this case, there will be technicians who are responsible for 
communication. In other competitions a variety of communication systems are used – radios, 
phones, or by using flags or flashing lights. 

16.3 In races up to and including 400m (including the first leg of 4 × 200m, the Medley 
Relay and 4 × 400m), a crouch start and the use of starting blocks are compulsory. 
After the "On your marks" command, an athlete shall approach the start line, assume 
a position completely within their allocated lane and behind the start line. An athlete 
shall not touch either the start line or the ground in front of it with their hands or their 
feet when on their mark. Both hands and at least one knee shall be in contact with the 
ground and both feet in contact with the foot plates of the starting blocks. At the "Set" 
command, an athlete shall immediately rise to their final starting position retaining the 
contact of the hands with the ground and of the feet with the foot plates of the blocks. 
Once the Starter is satisfied that all athletes are steady in the "Set" position, the gun 
shall be fired. 

In all races using a crouch start, as soon as they are steady in their blocks, the Starter shall 
raise their arm in which they hold the gun, then they shall say “Set“. They shall wait then for 
all the athletes to be steady and shall then fire the gun. 

The Starter must not raise their arm too early, especially when manual Timekeepers are 
being used. They are advised to raise their arm only when they feel they are about to give 
the command “Set“. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  21 



Book C – C2.1 

There is no rule that enables to determine the time that elapses between the commands “On 
your marks“ and “Set“ on one hand, and on the other hand, between the command “Set“ and 
the gun shot. The Starter shall let the athletes go once they are all motionless in the correct 
starting position. Which means that they may have, for certain starts, to fire the gun quite 
quickly, but on the other hand, they may also have to wait longer in order to make sure that 
they are all steady in their starting position. 

16.4 In races longer than 400m (except 4 × 200m, the Medley Relay and 4 × 400m), all 
starts shall be made from a standing position. After the "On your marks" command, 
an athlete shall approach the start line and assume a starting position behind the start 
line (completely within their allocated lane in races started in lanes). An athlete shall 
not touch any part of the ground with their hand or hands and/or the start line or the 
ground in front of it with their feet when on their mark. Once the Starter is satisfied 
that all athletes are steady in the correct starting position, the gun shall be fired. 

16.5 On the command "On your marks" or "Set", as the case may be, all athletes shall, at 
once and without delay, assume their full and final starting position. If, for any reason, 
the Starter is not satisfied that all is ready for the start to proceed after the athletes 
are on their marks, they shall order all athletes to withdraw from their marks and the 
Starter's Assistants shall assemble them again (See also Rule 23 of the Competition 
Rules). 

Where an athlete in the judgement of the Starter, 

16.5.1 after the command “On your marks” or “Set”, and before the report of the 
gun, causes the start to be aborted, for instance by raising a hand and/or 
standing or sitting up in the case of a crouch start, without a valid reason, 
(such reason to be evaluated by the relevant Referee); or 

16.5.2 fails to comply with the commands “On your marks“ or “Set“ as appropriate, 
or does not place themselves in their final starting position at once and 
without delay; or 

16.5.3 after the command “On your marks“ or “Set” disturbs other athletes in the 
race through sound, movement or otherwise, 

 the Starter shall abort the start. 

 The Referee may warn the athlete for improper conduct (disqualify in case of a 
second infringement of the Rule during the same competition), according to Rule 18.5 
of the Competition Rules and Rule 7.2 of the Technical Rules. A green card shall not 
be shown. However, when an extraneous reason was considered to be the cause for 
aborting the start, or the Referee does not agree with the Starter’s decision, a green 
card shall be shown to all the athletes to indicate that a false start was not committed 
by any athlete. 

The division of the start rules into disciplinary matters (under Rule 16.5 of the Technical 
Rules) and false starts (Rules 16.7 and 16.8 of the Technical Rules) ensures that the whole 
field was not penalised for the actions of a single athlete. It is important in order to maintain 
the integrity of the intention of this division that Starters and Referees are as diligent in the 
application of Rule 16.5 of the Technical Rules as well as in detecting false starts. 

Such conduct, whether wilful or unintentional perhaps through nervousness should cause 
Rule 16.5 of the Technical Rules to be applied although where the Starter is of the view that 

22     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

it was unintentional, the application of Rule 16.2.3 of the Technical Rules only may be 
appropriate. 

Conversely, there will be instances in which an athlete is entitled to request a delay of the 
start for legitimate reasons. It is therefore vital that the Start Referee (in particular) pays 
attention to the environment and conditions surrounding the start, especially in relation to 
factors of which the Starter may not be aware because they are focussing on preparing 
themselves for the start and/or wearing headphones. 

In all such cases the Starter and Referee must act reasonably and efficiently and clearly 
indicate their decisions. If appropriate the reasons for the decisions can be announced to the 
athletes in the race and if possible or desirable also to the announcers, television team etc. 
through the communication network. 

A green card shall not be shown in any case when a yellow or red card has been issued. 

False Start 

16.6 When a World Athletics certified Start Information System is in use, the Starter and/or 
an assigned Recaller shall wear headphones in order to clearly hear the acoustic 
signal emitted when the System indicates a possible false start (i.e. when the reaction 
time is less than 0.100 second). As soon as the Starter and/or assigned Recaller 
hears the acoustic signal, and if the gun was fired, there shall be a recall and the 
Starter shall immediately examine the reaction times and other available information 
from the Start Information System in order to confirm which, if any, athlete(s) is/are 
responsible for the recall. 

  Note: When a World Athletics certified Start Information System is in operation, the 
evidence of this equipment shall be used as a resource by the relevant officials to 
assist in making a correct decision. 

16.7 An athlete, after assuming a full and final starting position, shall not commence their 
start until after receiving the report of the gun. If, in the judgement of the Starter 
(including under Rule 22.6 of the Competition Rules), they do so any earlier, it shall 
be a false start. The commencement of the start is defined: 

16.7.1 in the case of a crouch start, as any motion by an athlete that includes or 
results in one or both feet losing contact with the foot plate(s) of the starting 
blocks or one or both hands losing contact with the ground; and 

16.7.2 In the case of a standing start, as any motion that results in one or both feet 
losing contact with the ground. 

If the Starter determines that prior to receiving the report of the gun an athlete 
initiated a movement that was not stopped and continued into the commencement of 
their start, it shall also be a false start. 

Note (i): Any other motion by an athlete shall not be considered to be the 
commencement of their start. Such instances may, if applicable, be subject to a 
disciplinary warning or disqualification.  

Note (ii): As athletes starting races in a standing position are more prone to over-
balance, if such a movement is considered to be accidental, the start should be 
regarded as “unsteady”. If an athlete is pushed or jostled over the line before the 
start, they should not be penalised. Any athlete causing such interference may be 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  23 



Book C – C2.1 

subject to a disciplinary warning or disqualification. 

Generally, no false start should be charged if the athlete has not lost contact with the ground 
or foot plates. For example, if an athlete moves their hips up, but then moves them down 
without their hands or feet losing contact with the ground or foot plates at any time, it should 
not result in a false start. It may be a reason to warn (or disqualify if there has been a 
previous warning) the athlete for improper conduct under Rule 16.5 of the Technical Rules. 

However in cases of a “rolling start” where the Starter (or Recaller) is of the opinion that an 
athlete has effectively anticipated the start through some continuous movement even if they 
did not move their hands or feet before the gun sounded, the race should be recalled. This 
can be done by a Starter or Recaller but it will be the Starter who is in the best situation to 
judge such a case as only they will know the position of their finger on the gun trigger when 
the athlete began their movement. In these cases where the Starter is sure that the athlete’s 
movement began before the report of the gun, a false start should be awarded. 

In accordance with Note (ii) Starters and Referees should avoid being over-zealous in the 
application of Rule 16.7 of the Technical Rules to those events started from a standing 
position. Such instances are rare and usually occur unintentionally as it is easier to 
overbalance from a two-point start. It is not intended that same should be unduly penalised. 

If such a movement was considered to be accidental, Starters and Referees are encouraged 
to first consider calling the start “unsteady” and proceed according to Rule 16.2.3 of the 
Technical Rules. However repeat practices during the same event may entitle the Starter 
and/or Referee to consider applying either the false start or disciplinary procedures, as might 
best be applicable in the situation. 

16.8 Except in Combined Events, any athlete responsible for a false start shall be 
disqualified by the Starter. 

For Combined Events, see Rule 39.10.3 of the Technical Rules.  

Note: In practice, when one or more athletes make a false start, others are inclined to 
follow and, strictly speaking, any athlete who does so has also made a false start. 
The Starter should warn or disqualify only such athlete or athletes who, in their 
opinion, were responsible for the false start. This may result in more than one athlete 
being warned or disqualified. If the false start is not due to any athlete, no warnings 
shall be given and a green card shall be shown to all the athletes. 

16.9 In case of a false start, the Starter’s Assistants shall proceed as follows: 

Except in Combined Events, the athlete(s) responsible for the false start shall be 
disqualified and a red and black (diagonally halved) card shall be raised in front of 
them. 

In Combined Events, in case of a first false start, the athlete(s) responsible for the 
false start shall be warned with a yellow and black (diagonally halved) card raised in 
front of them. At the same time, all the other athletes taking part in the race shall be 
warned with the yellow and black card raised in front of them by one or several 
Starter's Assistants in order to notify them that anyone committing further false starts 
will be disqualified. In case of further false starts, the athlete(s) responsible for the 
false start shall be disqualified and the red and black card shall be raised in front of 
them. 

24     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

If lane markers that provide for it are being used, then whenever a card is shown to 
the athlete(s) responsible for the false start, the corresponding indication should be 
shown on the lane marker(s). 

It is recommended that the size of the diagonally halved cards be A5 and that they be 
doubled sided. Note that the corresponding indication on the lane marker(s) may remain 
yellow and red as previously, in order to avoid unnecessary expense in modifying existing 
equipment. 

16.10 The Starter or any Recaller, who is of the opinion that the start was not a fair one, 
shall recall the athletes by firing a gun. 

The reference to a fair start does not relate solely to cases of a false start. This rule should 
also be interpreted as applying to other situations such as blocks slipping, a foreign object 
interfering with one or more athletes during a start etc. 

17. (Rule 163)   The Race 

17.1 In races including at least one bend, the direction of running and walking shall be left-
hand inside. The lanes shall be numbered with the left-hand inside lane numbered 1. 

This Rule allows, where conditions permit and the track is properly surveyed, straight events 
to be conducted in the opposite direction, i.e. right-hand inside. 

Obstruction 

17.2 If an athlete is jostled or obstructed during an event so as to impede their progress, 
then: 

17.2.1 if the jostling or obstruction is considered unintentional or is caused 
otherwise than by an athlete, the Referee may, if they are of the opinion 
that an athlete (or their team) was seriously affected, in accordance with 
Rule 18.7 of the Competition Rules or Rule 8.4 of the Technical Rules, 
order that the race (for one, some or all of the athletes) be re-held or allow 
the affected athlete (or team) to compete in a subsequent round of the 
event; 

17.2.2 if another athlete is found by the Referee to be responsible for the jostling 
or obstruction, such athlete (or their team) shall be liable to disqualification 
from that event. The Referee may, if they are of the opinion that an athlete 
(or their team) was seriously affected, in accordance with Rule 18.7 of the 
Competition Rules or Rule 8.4 of the Technical Rules, order that the race 
(for one, some or all of the athletes) be re-held excluding any disqualified 
athlete (or team) or allow any affected athlete (or team) (other than any 
disqualified athlete or team) to compete in a subsequent round of the event.  

 Note: In cases considered serious enough, Rule 18.5 of the Competition 
Rules and Rule 7.2 of the Technical Rules may also be applied. 

In both cases Rules 17.2.1 and 17.2.2 of the Technical Rules, such athlete (or team) 
should normally have completed the event with bona fide effort. 

 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  25 



Book C – C2.1 

Lane Infringement 

17.3 In all races: 

17.3.1 run in lanes, each athlete shall keep within their allocated lane from start to 
finish. This shall also apply to any portion of a race run in lanes; 

17.3.2 (or any part of races) not run in lanes, an athlete running on a bend, on the 
outer half of the track as per Rule 17.5.2 of the Technical Rules, or on any 
curved part of the diversion from the track for the steeplechase water jump, 
shall not step or run on or inside the kerb or line marking the applicable 
border (the inside of the track, the outer half of the track, or any curved part 
of the diversion from the track for the steeplechase water jump). 

 Except as stated in Rule 17.4 of the Technical Rules, if the Referee is satisfied, on the 
report of a Judge or Umpire or otherwise, that an athlete has infringed this Rule, they 
or in the case of a relay event, their team shall be disqualified. 

17.4 An athlete, or in the case of a relay event, his team, shall not be disqualified if the 
athlete: 

17.4.1 are pushed or forced by another person to step or run outside their lane or 
on or inside the kerb or line marking the applicable border, or 

17.4.2 step or run outside their lane in the straight, any straight part of the 
diversion from the track for the steeplechase water jump or outside the 
outer line of their lane on the bend, 

  with no material advantage thereby being gained and no other athlete being jostled or 
obstructed so as to impede their progress. If material advantage is gained, the athlete 
(or team) shall be disqualified. 

Note: Material advantage includes improving their position by any means, including 
removing themselves from a “boxed” position in the race by having stepped or run 
inside the inside edge of the track. 

This Note specifically outlaws the practice of an athlete seeking to improve their position in 
races by moving onto the inside of the track (whether intentionally or after being pushed or 
jostled there by another athlete) to get out of a boxed position by running on the inside until 
clear. Whilst normally running on the inside of lane 1 in the straight (as distinct from doing so 
on the bend) would not lead to mandatory disqualification, the Referee now has the power to 
disqualify in their discretion if this occurs and the athlete is advantaged even if the initial 
reason for being there was the result of being pushed or jostled. In such cases the athlete 
should take immediate steps to return to the track without seeking or gaining any advantage. 

17.5 In competitions held under paragraph 1.1 of the International Competition definition 
and where suitable in other competitions: 

17.5.1 the 800m event shall be run in lanes as far as the nearer edge of the 
breakline where athletes may leave their respective lanes. The breakline 
shall be an arced line marked after the first bend, 50mm wide, across all 
lanes other than lane 1. To assist athletes identify the breakline, small 
cones, prisms or other suitable markers, preferably of different colour from 
the breakline and the lane lines, shall be placed on the lane lines 
immediately before the intersection of the lane lines and the breakline. 

26     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

Note: In competitions under paragraphs 1.4 and 1.8 of the International 
Competition definition, the participating teams may agree not to use 
lanes. 

17.5.2 when there are more than 12 athletes in a race over 1000m, 2000m, 
3000m, (optionally, 3000m Steeplechase with inside water jump), 5000m or 
10,000m, they may be divided into two groups with one group of 
approximately two thirds of the athletes on the regular arced start line and 
the other group on a separate arced start line marked across the outer half 
of the track. The other group shall run as far as the end of the first bend of 
the race on the outer half of the track, which shall be marked by cones, 
flags or temporary kerbing as described in Rule 14.1 of the Technical 
Rules. 

 The separate arced start line shall be positioned in such a way that all the 
athletes shall run the same distance. 

 The breakline for 800m indicates where the athletes in the outer group in 
2000m and 10,000m may join the athletes using regular start. 

 For group starts in 1000m, 3000m, (optionally 3000m steeplechase with 
inside water jump) and 5000m, the track shall be marked at the beginning 
of the finish straight to indicate where athletes starting in the outer group 
may join the athletes using the regular start. This mark may be a 50mm × 
50mm mark on the line between lanes 4 and 5 (lanes 3 and 4 in a six-lane 
track) immediately before which a cone or flag is placed until the two 
groups converge. 

17.5.3 If an athlete does not follow this Rule they, or in the case of a relay their 
team, shall be disqualified. 

The markers used on the breakline for the 800m and applicable relays should be 
50mm × 50mm and no more than 0.15m high. 

For clarity when complying with Rule 25.4 of the Competition Rules when stating the Rule 
under which an athlete is disqualified: 

(a) if an athlete steps on or inside the line then state Rule 17.3 of the Technical 
Rules 

(b) if an athlete crosses over before the breakline or split start marker then 
state Rule 17.5 of the Technical Rules. 

Leaving the Track 

17.6 An athlete, after voluntarily leaving the track, except in compliance with Rule 24.6.3 of 
the Technical Rules, shall not be allowed to continue in the race and shall be 
recorded as not finishing the event. Should the athlete attempt to re-enter the race, 
they shall be disqualified by the Referee. 

Check-Marks 

17.7 Except as stated in Rule 24.4 of the Technical Rules, when all or the first portion of a 
Relay Race is being run in lanes, athletes may not make check-marks or place 
objects on or alongside the running track for their assistance. The Judges shall direct 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  27 



Book C – C2.1 

the relevant athlete to adapt or remove any marks or objects not complying with this 
Rule. If they do not, the Judges shall remove them. 

 Note: Serious cases may further be dealt with under Rule 18.5 of the Competition 
Rules and Rule 7.2 of the Technical Rules. 

Wind Measurement 

17.8 All wind gauge equipment shall be manufactured and calibrated according to 
international standards. The accuracy of the measuring equipment used in the 
competition shall have been verified by an appropriate organisation accredited by the 
national measurement authority. 

17.9 Non-mechanical wind gauges shall be used at all International Competitions under 
paragraphs 1.1 to 1.8 of the International Competition definition and for any 
performance submitted for ratification as a World Record. 

 A mechanical wind gauge should have appropriate protection to reduce the impact of 
any crosswind. Where tubes are used, their length on either side of the measuring 
device should be at least twice the diameter of the tube. 

17.10 The Track Referee shall ensure that the wind gauge for Track Events is placed 
beside the straight, adjacent to lane 1, 50m from the finish line. The measuring plane 
shall be positioned 1.22m ± 0.05m high and not more than 2m away from the track. 

17.11 The wind gauge may be started and stopped automatically and/or remotely, and the 
information conveyed directly to the competition computer. 

17.12 The periods for which the wind velocity shall be measured from the flash / smoke of 
the Starter's gun are as follows: 

   Seconds 

100m    10 

100m Hurdles  13 

110m Hurdles  13 

In the 200m event, the wind velocity shall normally be measured for a period of 10 
seconds commencing when the first athlete enters the straight. 

17.13 The wind gauge shall be read in metres per second, rounded to the next higher tenth 
of a metre per second, unless the second decimal is zero, in the positive direction 
(that is, a reading of +2.03 metres per second shall be recorded as +2.1; a reading of 
-2.03 metres per second shall be recorded as -2.0). Gauges that produce digital 
readings expressed in tenths of metres per second shall be constructed so as to 
comply with this Rule. 

Indication of Intermediate Times 

17.14 Intermediate times and preliminary winning times may be officially announced and/or 
displayed. Otherwise, such times must not be communicated to the athletes by 
persons in the competition area without the prior approval of the appropriate Referee 
who may authorise or appoint no more than one person to call times at each of no 
more than two agreed timing points.  

28     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

Athletes who receive intermediate times that have been communicated in violation of 
this Rule shall be considered to have received assistance and shall be subject to the 
provisions of Rule 6.2 of the Technical Rules. 

Note: The competition area, which normally also has a physical barrier, is defined for 
this purpose as the area where the competition is being staged and which has an 
access restricted to the competing athletes and personnel authorised in accordance 
with the relevant Rules and Regulations. 

Drinking / Sponging 

17.15 Drinking / Sponging, as follows: 

17.15.1 In Track Events of 5000m or longer, the Organisers may provide water and 
sponges to athletes if weather conditions warrant such provision. 

17.15.2 In Track Events longer than 10,000m, refreshments, water and sponging 
stations shall be provided. Refreshments may be provided either by the 
Organisers or the athlete and shall be placed so that they are easily 
accessible to, or may be put by authorised persons into the hands of, the 
athletes. Refreshments provided by the athletes shall be kept under the 
supervision of officials designated by the Organisers from the time that the 
refreshments are lodged by the athletes or their representatives. Those 
officials shall ensure that the refreshments are not altered or tampered with 
in any way.  

17.15.3 An athlete may, at any time, carry water or refreshment by hand or 
attached to their body provided it was carried from the start or collected or 
received at an official station. 

17.15.4 An athlete who receives or collects refreshment or water from a place other 
than the official stations, except where provided for medical reasons from 
or under the direction of race officials, or takes the refreshment of another 
athlete, should, for a first such offence, be warned by the Referee normally 
by showing a yellow card. For a second offence, the Referee shall 
disqualify the athlete, normally by showing a red card. The athlete shall 
then immediately leave the track. 

Note: An athlete may receive from or pass to another athlete refreshment, 
water or sponges provided it was carried from the start or collected or 
received at an official station. However, any continuous support from an 
athlete to one or more others in such a way may be regarded as unfair 
assistance and warnings and/or disqualifications as outlined above may be 
applied. 

18. (Rule 164)   The Finish 

18.1 The finish of a race shall be denoted by a white line 50mm wide. 

 Note: In the case of events finishing outside the stadium, the finish line may be up to 
0.30m in width and may be of any colour contrasting distinctively with the surface of 
the finish area. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  29 



Book C – C2.1 

18.2 The athletes shall be placed in the order in which any part of their bodies (i.e. torso, 
as distinguished from the head, neck, arms, legs, hands or feet) reaches the vertical 
plane of the nearer edge of the finish line as defined above. 

18.3 In any race decided on the basis of the distance covered in a fixed period of time, the 
Starter shall fire the gun exactly one minute before the end of the race to warn 
athletes and Judges that the race is nearing its end. The Starter shall be directed by 
the Chief Timekeeper and, at exactly the appropriate time after the start, they shall 
signal the end of the race by again firing the gun. At the moment the gun is fired to 
signal the end of the race, the Judges appointed for that purpose shall mark the exact 
spot where each athlete touched the track for the last time before or simultaneously 
with the firing of the gun. 

The distance achieved shall be measured to the nearest metre behind this mark. At 
least one Judge shall be assigned to each athlete before the start of the race for the 
purpose of marking the distance achieved. 

Guidelines for the conduct of the One Hour Race may be downloaded from the World 
Athletics website. 

19. (Rule 165)   Timing and Photo Finish 

19.1 Three methods of timekeeping shall be recognised as official: 

19.1.1 Hand Timing; 

19.1.2 Fully Automatic Timing obtained from a Photo Finish System; 

19.1.3 Timing provided by a Transponder System for competitions held under 
Rules 54 (races not held completely in the stadium), 55, 56, and 57 of the 
Technical Rules only. 

19.2 Under Rules 19.1.1 and 19.1.2 of the Technical Rules, the time shall be taken to the 
moment at which any part of the body of an athlete (i.e. torso, as distinguished from 
the head, neck, arms, legs, hands or feet) reaches the vertical plane of the nearer 
edge of the finish line. 

19.3 Times for all finishers shall be recorded. In addition, whenever possible, lap times in 
races of 800m and over and intermediate times at every 1000m in races of 3000m 
and over shall be recorded. 

Hand Timing 

19.4 The Timekeepers shall be in line with the finish and, where possible, they should be 
placed at least 5m from the outside lane of the track. In order that they may all have a 
good view of the finish line, an elevated stand should be provided. 

19.5 Timekeepers shall use manually operated electronic timers with digital readouts. All 
such timing devices are termed "watches" for the purpose of the Rules. 

19.6 The lap and intermediate times as per Rule 19.3 of the Technical Rules shall be 
recorded either, by designated members of the timekeeping team using watches 
capable of taking more than one time, or by additional Timekeepers, or by 
transponders. 

19.7 The time shall be taken from the flash / smoke of the gun. 

30     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

19.8 Three official Timekeepers (one of whom shall be the Chief Timekeeper) and one or 
two additional Timekeepers shall time the winner of every event and any 
performances for record purposes. (For Combined Events, see Rule 39.8.2 of the 
Technical Rules.) The times recorded by the additional Timekeepers' watches shall 
not be considered unless one or more of the official Timekeepers' watches fail to 
record the time correctly, in which case the additional Timekeepers shall be called 
upon, in such order as has been decided previously, so that in all the races, three 
watches should have recorded the official winning time.  

19.9 Each Timekeeper shall act independently and without showing their watch to, or 
discussing their time with, any other person, shall enter their time on the official form 
and, after signing it, hand it to the Chief Timekeeper who may examine the watches 
to verify the reported times. 

19.10 For all hand-timed races, times shall be read and recorded as follows:  

19.10.1 For races on the track, unless the time is an exact 0.1 second, the time 
shall be converted and recorded to the next longer 0.1 second, e.g. 10.11 
shall be recorded as 10.2. 

19.10.2 For races partly or entirely outside the stadium, unless the time is an exact 
whole second, the time shall be converted and recorded to the next longer 
whole second, e.g. 2:09:44.3 shall be recorded as 2:09:45. 

19.11 If, after converting as indicated above, two of the three watches agree and the third 
disagrees, the time recorded by the two shall be the official time. If all three watches 
disagree, the middle time shall be official. If only two times are available and they 
disagree, the longer time shall be official. 

19.12 The Chief Timekeeper, acting in accordance with the Rules mentioned above, shall 
decide the official time for each athlete and provide the results to the Competition 
Secretary for distribution. 

Fully Automatic Timing and Photo Finish System 

The System 

19.13 A Fully Automatic Timing and Photo Finish System must have been tested, and have 
a certificate of accuracy issued within 4 years of the competition, including the 
following:  

19.13.1 The System must record the finish through a camera positioned in the 
extension of the finish line, producing a composite image. 

a. For competitions under paragraph 1.1 of the International Competition 
definition, this composite image must be composed of at least 1000 
images per second. 

b. For other competitions, this composite image must be composed of at 
least 100 images per second. 

In each case, the image must be synchronised with a uniformly marked time-scale 
graduated in 0.01 seconds. 

19.13.2 The System shall be started automatically by the Starter's signal, so that 
the overall delay between the report from the muzzle or its equivalent visual 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  31 



Book C – C2.1 

indication and the start of the timing system is constant and equal to or less 
than 0.001 second. 

19.14 In order to confirm that the camera is correctly aligned and to facilitate the reading of 
the Photo Finish image, the intersection of the lane lines and the finish line shall be 
coloured black in a suitable design. Any such design must be solely confined to the 
intersection, for no more than 20mm beyond, and not extended before, the leading 
edge of the finish line. Similar black marks may be placed on each side of the 
intersection of an appropriate lane line and the finish line to further facilitate reading. 

19.15 The placing of the athletes shall be identified from the image by means of a cursor 
with its reading line guaranteed to be perpendicular to the time scale. 

19.16 The System must automatically determine and record the finish times of the athletes 
and must be able to produce a printed image which shows the time of any athlete. 
Additionally, the system shall provide a tabular overview which shows the time or 
other result of every athlete. Subsequent changes of automatically determined values 
and manual input of values (such as start time, finish time), shall be indicated by the 
system automatically in the time scale of the printed image and the tabular overview. 

19.17 A system which operates automatically at the finish, but not at the start, shall be 
considered to produce Hand Times provided that the system was started in 
accordance with Rule 19.7 of the Technical Rules or with equivalent accuracy. The 
image may be used as a valid support in order to determine placings and adjust time 
intervals between athletes. 

Note: If the timing mechanism is not started by the Starter's signal, the time-scale on 
the image shall indicate this fact automatically. 

19.18 A system, which operates automatically at the start but not at the finish, shall be 
considered to produce neither Hand nor Fully Automatic Times and shall not 
therefore be used to obtain official times. 

Operation 

19.19 The Chief Photo Finish Judge shall be responsible for the functioning of the System. 
Before the start of the competition, they will meet the technical staff involved and 
familiarise themselves with the equipment, checking all applicable settings. 

In cooperation with the Track Referee and the Starter, they shall initiate a zero 
control test, before the beginning of each session, to ensure that the equipment is 
started automatically by the Starter's signal within the limit identified in Rule 19.13.2 
of the Technical Rules (i.e. equal to or less than 0.001 second). 

They shall supervise the testing of the equipment and ensure that the camera(s) is 
(are) correctly aligned. 

19.20 There should be at least two photo finish cameras in action, one from each side. 
Preferably, these timing systems should be technically independent, i.e. with different 
power supplies and recording and relaying of the Starter's signal, by separate 
equipment and cables. 

 Note: Where two or more Photo Finish cameras are used, one should be designated 
as official by the Technical Delegate(s) (or International Photo Finish Judge where 
appointed) before the start of the competition. The times and places from the images 

32     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

of the other camera(s) should not be considered unless there is reason to doubt the 
accuracy of the official camera or if there is need to use the supplementary images to 
resolve uncertainties in the finishing order (i.e. athletes wholly or partially obscured on 
the image from the official camera). 

19.21 In conjunction with an adequate number of assistants, the Chief Photo Finish Judge 
shall determine the placing of the athletes and, as a consequence, their official times. 
They shall ensure that these results are correctly entered in or transferred to the 
competition results system and conveyed to the Competition Secretary. 

At major events where the technology is available, the photo finish image is often 
immediately provided on the video board or published on the internet. It has become the 
practice to provide athletes, or persons on their behalf, who are considering making a protest 
or appeal the opportunity to see the photo, in order to avoid time being spent on any 
unnecessary protests or appeals.  

19.22 Times from the Photo Finish System shall be regarded as official unless for any 
reason the appropriate official decides that they obviously must be inaccurate. If such 
is the case, the times of the back-up Timekeepers, if possible adjusted based on 
information on time intervals obtained from the Photo Finish image, shall be official. 
Such back-up Timekeepers must be appointed where any possibility exists of failure 
of the timing system. 

19.23 Times shall be read and recorded from the Photo Finish image as follows: 

19.23.1 For all races up to and including 10,000m, unless the time is an exact 0.01 
second, the time shall be converted and recorded to the next longer 0.01 
second, e.g. 26:17.533 shall be recorded as 26:17.54. 

19.23.2 For all races on the track longer than 10,000m, all times not ending in two 
zeroes shall be converted and recorded to the next longer 0.1 second, e.g. 
59:26.322 shall be recorded as 59:26.4. 

19.23.3 For all races held partly or entirely outside the stadium, all times not ending 
in three zeroes shall be converted and recorded to the next longer whole 
second, e.g. 2:09:44.322 shall be recorded as 2:09:45.  

Transponder System 

19.24 The use of Transponder Timing Systems complying with the Rules in events held 
under Rules 54 (races not held completely in the stadium), 55, 56, and 57 of the 
Technical Rules is permitted provided that: 

19.24.1 None of the equipment used at the start, along the course or at the finish 
line constitutes a significant obstacle or barrier to the progress of an 
athlete. 

19.24.2 The weight of the transponder and its housing carried or worn by the 
athlete is not significant. 

19.24.3 The System is started by the Starter's gun or synchronised with the start 
signal. 

19.24.4 The System requires no action by an athlete during the competition, at the 
finish or at any stage in the result processing. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  33 



Book C – C2.1 

19.24.5 For all races, all times not ending in zero shall be converted and recorded 
to the next longer whole second, e.g. 2:09:44.3 shall be recorded as 
2:09:45. 

Note: The official time shall be the time elapsed between the firing of the 
starting gun (or the synchronised start signal) and the athlete reaching the 
finish line. However, the time elapsed between an athlete crossing the start 
line and the finish line can be made known to them, but will not be 
considered an official time. 

19.24.6 Whilst the determination of the finishing order and times may be considered 
official, Rules 18.2 and 19.2 of the Technical Rules must be applied where 
required. 

Note: It is recommended that Judges and/or video recording(s) also be 
provided to assist in determining the finishing order and the identification of 
athletes. 

It is important that when using transponder timing that appropriate back-up systems are put 
in place by the Organisers, especially to respect Rule 19.24.6 of the Technical Rules. The 
provision of back-up Timekeepers, and more importantly Finish Judges to adjudicate on 
close finishes (which might not be differentiated by chip timing) is strongly recommended. 

19.25 The Chief Transponder Timing Judge shall be responsible for the functioning of the 
System. Before the start of the competition, they will meet the technical staff involved 
and familiarise themselves with the equipment, checking all applicable settings. They 
shall supervise the testing of the equipment and ensure that the passing of the 
transponder over the finish line will record the athlete’s finish time. In conjunction with 
the Referee, they shall ensure that provision is made for the application, when 
necessary, of Rule 19.24.6 of the Technical Rules. 

20. (Rule 166)   Seedings, Draws and Qualification in Track Events 

Rounds and Heats 

20.1 Qualification Rounds shall be held in Track Events in which the number of athletes is 
too large to allow the competition to be conducted satisfactorily in a single round 
(final). Where Qualification Rounds are held, all athletes must compete in, and qualify 
through, all such rounds except that the relevant governing body may, for one or 
more events, authorise the conduct of additional preliminary qualification round(s) 
either at the same competition or at one or more earlier competition(s) to determine 
some or all of the athletes who shall be entitled to participate and in which round of 
the competition. Such procedure and any other means (such as achieving entry 
standards during a specified period, by specified placing in a designated competition 
or by specified rankings) by which an athlete is entitled to participate, and in which 
round of the competition, shall be set out in the regulations for each competition.  

  Note: See also Rule 8.4.3 of the Technical Rules.  

20.2 The Qualification Rounds for Track Events shall be arranged as follows by the 
appointed Technical Delegates. If no Technical Delegates have been appointed, they 
shall be arranged by the Organisers. 

20.2.1 The regulations for each competition should include tables which shall, in 
the absence of extraordinary circumstances, be used to determine the 

34     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

number of rounds, the number of heats in each round and the qualification 
procedure, i.e. those to advance by place (P) and time (T). Such 
information shall also be provided for any preliminary qualifications. 

Note: Tables which may be used in the absence of any provision in 
applicable regulations or other determination by the Organisers are 
published on the World Athletics website. 

20.2.2 Whenever possible, representatives of each Member or team and the best 
performed athletes shall be placed in different heats in all Qualification 
Rounds of the competition. In applying this Rule after the first round, the 
required exchanges of athletes between heats should, to the extent 
possible, be made between athletes seeded in the same “group of lanes” 
according to Rule 20.4.2 of the Technical Rules. 

20.2.3 When heats are being arranged, as much information as possible about the 
performances of all athletes should be considered and the heats drawn so 
that, normally, the best performed athletes reach the final. 

The Qualification Rounds should determine in the best possible way the athletes who will 
take part in the next round and eventually the final. This includes avoiding where possible the 
clashing of the best performed athletes (determined generally on performance in the 
qualification period but also taking into account such matters as outstanding recent career 
records) in the same heats as also applies to athletes from the same Member or team. 

For major competitions, at least, the basis of the seeding should be the best times achieved 
by each athlete in valid conditions (including with wind readings for the relevant events) 
during the pre-determined period. This period may be specified in the Technical Regulations 
or in the document setting out the entry conditions and standards for the competition. Where 
there is no such specification, then “Season Best” should be used unless the Technical 
Delegate(s) or the Organisers decide that for one, some or all events the circumstances 
justify an alternate period or other criteria being applied. 

Such factors as performances achieved during training or tests, even if they appeared to look 
like competition or notions about what an athlete might "be worth" but has never achieved, 
should not be taken into account in seeding. 

The requirements of the Rule in relation to the "best performed athletes" does require some 
deviation from the strict protocol outlined above. For example, an athlete who might normally 
be seeded in a high position might not have any, or only a poor, valid performance in the 
predetermined period (through injury, illness, ineligibility or in the case of indoor meetings 
only have outdoor results). Whilst they would normally be placed lower or at the bottom of 
the seeding list, adjustment should be considered by the Technical Delegate(s). Similar 
principles should be applied to avoid a clash in a Qualification Round between athletes 
considered to be the favourites to place highly in the event if the results of the previous round 
would strictly dictate that they should be in the same heat. At this same time any adjustments 
to ensure as much as possible that athletes from the same nation or team are in different 
heats should also be made. 

In all such cases, adjustments of the seeding should be made after the initial allocation to the 
heats but before any draw is made for the lanes. After these changes are made, a final check 
should be made to ensure that the heats are as equal as possible. 

In applying these principles exchanges of athletes should be made: 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  35 



Book C – C2.1 

a. in the first round, between athletes with a similar ranking on the list of best 
valid performances during the pre-determined period; and 

b. in subsequent rounds, between athletes seeded in the same “group of lanes” 
according to Rule 20.4.2 of the Technical Rules.  

Following these principles is more important in competitions in which the number of rounds 
has been reduced in some events - making accurate and well considered seeding vital to 
achieving both a fair and an athletically appealing outcome. 

For lower level competitions, the Technical Delegate(s) or the Organisers may consider use 
different principles to achieve a similar final outcome.  

Ranking and Composition of Heats  

20.3 Ranking and Composition of Heats, as follows: 

20.3.1 For the first round, the athletes shall be ranked with the seeding determined 
from the relevant list of valid performances achieved during the 
predetermined period. 

20.3.2 After the first round: 

a. for events of 100m to 400m inclusive, and relays up to and including 
4 × 400m, seeding shall be based upon placings and times of each 
previous round. For this purpose, athletes shall be ranked as follows: 

Fastest heat winner 

2nd fastest heat winner 

3rd fastest heat winner, etc. 

Fastest 2nd place 

2nd fastest 2nd place 

3rd fastest 2nd place, etc. 

(Concluding with) 

Fastest time qualifier 

2nd fastest time qualifier 

3rd fastest time qualifier, etc. 

b. for other events, the original performance lists shall continue to be 
used for seeding, modified only by improvements in performances 
achieved during the earlier round(s). 

 

 

36     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

20.3.3 In each case the athletes shall then be placed in heats in the order of 
seeding in a zigzag distribution, e.g. three heats will consist of the following 
seedings: 

  A  1 6 7 12 13 18 19 24 

  B  2 5 8 11 14 17 20 23 

  C  3 4 9 10 15 16 21 22 

20.3.4 In each case, the order in which heats are to be run shall be determined by 
draw after the composition of the heats has been decided. 

For the first round in order to reduce the number of heats required, it is acceptable and 
normal for additional available lanes (for example a ninth lane on a straight or oval track) to 
be used in races up to and including 400m and to have more than one athlete in a lane at the 
start of an 800m race. 

The random draw to determine the order in which the heats are conducted is based on 
fairness. In middle and long distance races the athletes running in the last heat will know as 
far as qualifying by times the performance they have to realise in order to qualify. Even with 
the shorter races there is a fairness aspect as weather conditions can change (rain suddenly 
falling or an alteration in wind strength or direction). Fairness dictates that order be 
determined by chance. 

Draw for Lanes 

20.4 For events 100m to 800m inclusive, and relays up to and including 4 × 400m, where 
there are several successive rounds of a race, lanes will be drawn as follows: 

20.4.1 For the first round and any additional preliminary qualification round as per 
Rule 20.1 of the Technical Rules, the lane order shall be drawn by lot. 

20.4.2 After the first round, athletes shall be ranked after each round in 
accordance with the procedure shown in Rule 20.3.2(a) or, in the case of 
800m, 20.3.2(b) of the Technical Rules. 

  Three draws for lanes will then be made: 

a. one for the four highest ranked athletes or teams to determine 
placings in lanes 3, 4, 5 and 6; 

b. another for the fifth and sixth ranked athletes or teams to determine 
placings in lanes 7 and 8, and 

c. another for the two lowest ranked athletes or teams to determine 
placings in lanes 1 and 2. 

Note: When there are fewer or more than 8 lanes, the above system with 
the necessary modifications should be followed. 

  Note (i): In competitions under paragraphs 1.4 to 1.10 of the International 
Competition definition, the 800m event may be run with one or two athletes in each 
lane, or with group start behind an arced line. In competitions under paragraphs 1.1, 
1.2, 1.3 and 1.6 of the International Competition definition, this should normally be 
applied only in the first round, unless because of ties or advancement by the Referee 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  37 



Book C – C2.1 

or the Jury of Appeal, there are more athletes in a race of a subsequent round than 
were anticipated. 

  Note (ii): In any 800 metres race, including a final, where for any reason there are 
more athletes competing than lanes available, the Technical Delegate(s) shall 
determine in which lanes more than one athlete will be drawn. 

  Note (iii): When there are more lanes than athletes, the inside lane(s) should always 
remain free. 

With regard to Note (ii), there is no exact specification as to how the Technical Delegates 
should act as the situations which may give rise to it may vary greatly. However, this issue 
only affects the running of the first bend of the race and is not as important as the allocation 
of lanes in a shorter race. Technical Delegate(s) are advised to place the additional athlete(s) 
in the lane(s) where the "double-up" will cause least inconvenience - usually the outer lanes 
so that the athletes are not running around a tighter bend together. 

As to Note (iii), where a stadium has more than eight lanes available, the Technical 
Delegate(s) (or if none the Organisers) should decide in advance which lanes are to be used 
for this purpose. For example, in the case of a nine-lane oval track, lane one would not be 
used in cases where less than nine athletes are taking part in a race. Consequently, for the 
purposes of Rule 20.4 of the Technical Rules, lane 2 is regarded as lane 1 and so on. 

20.5 In competitions under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.6 of the International 
Competition definition, for events longer than 800m, relays longer than 4 × 400m and 
any event where only a single round (final) is required, lanes / starting positions shall 
be drawn by lot.  

20.6 Where it is decided to conduct a series of races in an event rather than rounds and 
finals, the regulations for the competition shall set out all relevant considerations 
including seedings and draws and the method by which the final results will be 
determined. 

20.7 An athlete shall not be allowed to compete in a heat or lane other than the one in 
which their name appears, except in circumstances which, in the opinion of the 
Technical Delegate(s) or the Referee, justify an alteration. 

Progression 

20.8 In all Qualification Rounds, the tables should, where practicable, allow at least the 
first and second places in each heat to qualify for the next round and it is 
recommended that, where possible, at least three in each heat should qualify. 

Except where Rule 21 of the Technical Rules applies, any other athletes may qualify 
by place or by time according to Rule 20.2 of the Technical Rules, the applicable 
Technical Regulations, or as determined by the Technical Delegate(s). When 
athletes are qualified according to their times, only one system of timing may be 
applied. 

Note: In races longer than 800 metres where rounds are conducted, it is 
recommended that only a small number of athletes qualify by time. 

Where tables are prescribed in the regulations for a competition it is usual that the principle 
set out in Rule 20.8 of the Technical Rules will have been incorporated. Where not, the 

38     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

Technical Delegates or Organisers should follow same when establishing the progression 
table to be used. 

There will however be occasions when Rule 21 of the Technical Rules may cause a variation 
to be applied, particularly where there is a tie for the last qualifying position based on place. 
In such cases, it may be necessary for one less athlete to progress on time. In circumstances 
where there are sufficient additional lanes available, or in the case of the 800m (where a lane 
at the start may be used for more than one athlete) or a non-laned race, the Technical 
Delegate(s) may decide to progress an additional athlete(s). 

Because of the provision within Rule 20.8 of the Technical Rules that for time qualification 
only one system of timing may be applied it is important for back-up timing systems to be 
available for preliminary rounds in case the primary system (usually photo finish) fails. In the 
event that only times from different timing systems are available for two or more heats, the 
Technical Delegates in conjunction with the Track Referee should determine, within the 
circumstances of the particular competition, the fairest method for determining those athletes 
who should proceed to the next round. Where additional lanes are available, it is 
recommended that this option be considered first.  

One Day Meetings 

20.9 In competitions held under paragraphs 1.5, 1.9 and 1.10 of the International 
Competition definition athletes may be seeded, ranked and/or allocated to lanes in 
accordance with the applicable regulations for the competition or any other method 
determined by the Organisers but preferably notified to the athletes and their 
representatives in advance. 

In one day meetings, if there is only a “final” round but with more than one race, the races 
should be arranged according to any applicable regulations for the meeting or the series of 
meetings of which it is a part. If there are none then it is usual for allocation of athletes to the 
various "races" to be undertaken by the Organisers or if requested by the appointed 
Technical Delegate(s). 

Similar considerations apply to how the final ranking of the athletes in such events will be 
made. In some meetings the "race(s)" other than the main race are regarded as separate 
races and are not considered for the overall ranking but in others the results of more than 
one race are "combined" to give the overall ranking. It is highly advisable to ensure that 
whichever is to apply for the competition is also notified to the participants in advance as it 
may affect prizes and other considerations. 

Minimum Times between Rounds 

20.10 The following minimum times must be allowed, when practicable, between the last 
heat of any round and the first heat of a subsequent round or final: 

Up to and including 200m     45 minutes 

Over 200m up to and including 1000m 90 minutes 

Over 1000m        Not on the same day 

21. (Rule 167)   Ties 

21.1 If the Judges or the Photo Finish Judges are unable to separate the athletes for any 
place according to Rules 18.2, 19.17, 19.21 or 19.24 of the Technical Rules (as may 
be applicable), it shall be determined to be a tie and the tie shall remain.  

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  39 



Book C – C2.1 

Tie for ranking position (according to Rule 20.3.2 of the Technical Rules) 

21.2 If there is a tie for any ranking position under Rule 20.3.2 of the Technical Rules, the 
Chief Photo Finish Judge shall consider the actual times recorded by the athletes to 
0.001 second and if it is equal, it shall be determined to be a tie and lots shall be 
drawn to determine the higher ranking position.  

Tie for last qualifying position based on place 

21.3 If after the application of Rule 21.1 of the Technical Rules, there is a tie for a last 
qualifying position based on place, if there are lanes or positions available (including 
lane sharing in 800m races) the tying athletes shall be placed in the next round. If that 
is not practicable lots shall be drawn to determine which athlete(s) shall be placed in 
the next round. 

21.4 Where qualifying for the next round is based on place and time (e.g., the first three in 
each of two heats plus the next two fastest), and there is a tie for the last qualifying 
position based on place, placing the tied athletes in the next round shall reduce the 
number of athletes qualifying based on time. 

Tie for last qualifying position based on time 

21.5 If there is a tie for a last qualifying position based on time, the Chief Photo Finish 
Judge shall consider the actual times recorded by the athletes to 0.001 second and if 
it is equal, it shall be determined to be a tie. If there are lanes or positions available 
(including lane sharing in 800m races) the tying athletes shall be placed in the next 
round. If that is not practicable lots shall be drawn to determine which athlete(s) shall 
be placed in the next round. 

22. (Rule 168)   Hurdle Races 

22.1 The standard distances shall be: 

 Men, U20 Men and U18 Men:    110m, 400m 

Women, U20 Women and U18Women: 100m, 400m 

 There shall be ten flights of hurdles in each lane, set out in accordance with the 
following table: 

Men, U20 Men and U18 Men 

Distance of race Distance from start   Distance between  Distance from last 
line to first hurdle    hurdles     hurdle to finish line 

 
110m     13.72m     9.14m     14.02m 
400m     45.00m     35.00m    40.00m 

Women, U20 Women and U18 Women 

Distance of race Distance from start   Distance between  Distance from last 
line to first hurdle    hurdles     hurdle to finish line 

100m      13.00m     8.50m     10.50m 

400m      45.00m     35.00m    40.00m 

40     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

 

Figure TR22 (Rule 168) - Example of a hurdle 

Each hurdle shall be so placed on the track that the feet shall be on the side of the 
approach by the athlete. The hurdle shall be so placed that the vertical plane of the 
side of the bar nearer to the approaching hurdler coincides with the track marking 
nearest the athlete. 

22.2 The hurdles shall be made of metal or some other suitable material with the top bar of 
wood or other non-metallic suitable material. They shall consist of two feet and two 
uprights supporting a rectangular frame, reinforced by one or more cross bars, the 
uprights to be fixed at the extreme end of each base. The hurdle shall be of such a 
design that a force at least equal to the weight of 3.6kg applied horizontally to the 
centre of the top edge of the top bar is required to tilt it. The hurdle may be adjustable 
in height for each event. The counterweights shall be adjustable so that at each 
height a force at least equal to the weight of 3.6kg and not more than 4kg is required 
to tilt it.  

The maximum horizontal deflection of the top bar of a hurdle (including any deflection 
of the uprights) when subject to a centrally applied force equal to the weight of 10kg 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  41 



Book C – C2.1 

shall not exceed 35mm. 

22.3 Dimensions: The standard heights of the hurdles shall be: 

Distance of race Men  U20 Men  U18 Men  Women/U20 U18 Women 

110m/100m  1.067m 0.991m  0.914m  0.838m  0.762m 

400m    0.914m 0.914m  0.838m  0.762m  0.762m 

Note: Due to manufacturing varieties, hurdles up to 1.000m are also acceptable in the U20 
110m Hurdles. 

In each case, there shall be a tolerance allowance of 3mm, above and below the 
standard heights, to allow for variation in the manufacture. The width of the hurdles 
shall be from 1.18m to 1.20m. The maximum length of the base shall be 0.70m. The 
total weight of the hurdles shall be not less than 10kg. 

22.4 The height of the top bar shall be 70mm ± 5mm. The thickness of this bar should be 
between 10mm and 25mm, and the top edges should be rounded. The bar should be 
firmly fixed at the extremities. 

22.5 The top bar should be painted with white and black stripes, or with other strong 
distinctive contrasting colours (and also in contrast with the surrounding 
environment), such that the lighter stripes, which should be at least 0.225m wide are 
on the outside. It shall be coloured so as to be visible to all sighted athletes. 

22.6 All races shall be run in lanes and each athlete shall go over each hurdle and keep to 
their own lane throughout. Failure to do so will result in a disqualification, unless Rule 
17.4 of the Technical Rules applies. 

In addition, an athlete shall be disqualified, if: 

22.6.1 their foot or leg is, at the instant of clearance, beside the hurdle (on either 
side), below the horizontal plane of the top of any hurdle; or 

22.6.2 they knock down or displace any hurdle by hand, body or the upper side of 
the lead leg; or 

22.6.3 they directly or indirectly knock down or displace a hurdle in their or in 
another lane in such a manner that there is effect or obstruction upon any 
other athlete(s) in the race, and/or another Rule is also infringed. 

Note: Provided that this Rule is otherwise observed and the hurdle is not displaced or 
its height lowered in any manner including tilting in any direction, an athlete may go 
over the hurdle in any manner. 

The requirement to go over each hurdle should not be read as requiring the athlete to go 
over each hurdle in their own lane - provided always the intention of Rules 17.3 and 17.4 of 
the Technical Rules is followed. But if an athlete knocks down or displaces a hurdle in 
another lane and thereby affects the progress of another athlete they should be disqualified. 

Situations when an athlete knocks down or displaces a hurdle in another lane should be 
interpreted in a logical way. For example, an athlete who knocks down or displaces a hurdle 
in the lane of an athlete who has already gone over that hurdle, should not necessarily be 
disqualified unless they otherwise infringe the Rules, i.e. by moving to an inside lane on the 

42     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

bend or having their foot or leg, at the instant of clearance, beside the hurdle (on either side), 
below the horizontal plane of the top of any hurdle. The intent of this Rule is to make it clear 
that an athlete who in making such action affects another athlete should be considered for 
disqualification. 

Referees and Umpires must nonetheless be alert and be sure that each athlete has kept to 
their own lane. Additionally, it is common in hurdle races that athletes stretch their arms 
widely while going over the hurdle, thus hitting or hampering the athlete in the next lane. This 
can best be noticed by Umpires standing or a video camera being placed head-on to the 
athletes. In this regard Rule 17.2 of the Technical Rules may be applied. 

Rule 22.6.1 of the Technical Rules applies to both the athlete’s “lead” and “trail” legs. 

“Knocking down” a hurdle does not in itself result in disqualification. The previous reference 
in the Rule to deliberately knocking down a hurdle has been removed. In Rule 22.6.2, it is 
replaced by some more objective factors to be considered by the Referee. The most obvious 
example is where the athlete uses his hand but could also be for example by his chest if he 
“ran through” the hurdle. It should be noted that the reference to “the upper side of the lead 
leg” means any part of the front side of the lead leg, not only the part above the knee. 

In relation to the Note, it will mainly be relevant to competitions at a lower level but is 
nonetheless applicable to all. Essentially, it permits an athlete, often one who has fallen or 
lost their stride pattern, to for example place their hands on the hurdle and “climb over”.  

22.7 Except as provided in Rules 22.6.1 and 22.6.2 of the Technical Rules, the knocking 
down of hurdles shall not result in disqualification nor prevent a Record being made. 

23. (Rule 169)   Steeplechase Races 

23.1 The standard distances shall be: 2000m and 3000m. 

23.2 For the 3000m event, there shall be 28 hurdle jumps and 7 water jumps. The distance 
from the start to the beginning of the first lap shall not include any jumps, the hurdles 
being removed until the athletes have entered the first lap.  

23.3 For the steeplechase events, there shall be five jumps in a complete lap, with the 
water jump as the fourth. The jumps should be evenly distributed, so that the distance 
between the jumps shall be approximately one fifth of the nominal length of the lap. 

Note: Adjustment to the hurdle spacing may be necessary to ensure that safe 
distances from a hurdle / start line and to the next hurdle are maintained before and 
after the finish line respectively, as indicated in the World Athletics Track and Field 
Facilities Manual. 

23.4  For the 2000m event, there shall be 18 hurdle jumps and 5 water jumps. The first 
jump is at the third hurdle of a lap. The previous hurdles shall be removed until the 
athletes have passed them for the first time. 

Note: In the 2000m event, if the water jump is on the inside of the track, the finish line 
has to be passed twice before the first complete lap with five jumps. 

23.5 The hurdles shall be 0.914m ± 0.003m high for Senior and U20 men’s events, 
0.838m ± 0.003m high for U18 men's events and 0.762m ± 0.003m for women’s 
events and shall be at least 3.94m wide.  

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  43 



Book C – C2.1 

The section of the top bar of the hurdles, and the hurdle at the water jump, shall be 
0.127m square. 

The weight of each hurdle shall be between 80kg and 100kg. Each hurdle shall have 
on either side a base between 1.2m and 1.4m (see Figure (a) TR23). 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Figure (a) TR23 (Rule 169) - Example of a steeplechase hurdle 

The hurdle at the water jump shall be 3.66m ± 0.02m wide, and shall be firmly fixed in 
or to the pit concrete walls, so that minimal only horizontal movement is possible. 

The top bars shall be made of wood or other suitable material and should be painted 
with white and black stripes, or with other strong distinctive contrasting colours (and 
also in contrast with the surrounding environment), such that the lighter stripes, which 
should be at least 0.225m wide, are on the outside and shall be coloured so as to be 
visible to all sighted athletes. 

The hurdle shall be placed on the track so that at least 0.30m of the top bar will 
extend inside the inner edge of the track. 

Note: It is recommended that the first hurdle taken in the race should be at least 5m 
in width. 

[Rule 23.5 amended in June 2019 and in force from 1 April 2020. For the current 
edition of Rule, please refer to Competition Rule 169.5.] 

23.6 The water jump, including the hurdle, shall be 3.66m ± 0.02m in length and the water 
pit shall be 3.66m ± 0.02m in width. 

The bottom of the water pit shall consist of a synthetic surface, or matting, of 
sufficient thickness to ensure safe landing, and allow for the spikes to grip 
satisfactorily. The depth of the water closest to the hurdle shall be 0.50m ± 0.05m for 
approximately 1.20m. From there, the bottom shall have a uniform slope of 12.4° ± 1° 
upwards to the level of the track at the farther end of the water pit. At the start of a 
race, the surface of the water shall be level with the surface of the track within a 
margin of 20mm. 

Note: Pits to the 2018/19 specifications remain acceptable. 

  

44     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

 

Figure (b) TR23 (Rule 169) - Water jump 

23.7 Each athlete shall go over or through the water and shall go over each hurdle. Failure 
to do so will result in a disqualification. 

  In addition, an athlete shall be disqualified, if 

23.7.1 they step to one side or other of the water jump, or  

23.7.2 their foot or leg is, at the instant of clearance, beside the hurdle (on either 
side), below the horizontal plane of the top of any hurdle.  

Provided this Rule is observed, an athlete may go over each hurdle in any manner. 

24. (Rule 170)   Relay Races  

24.1 The standard distances shall be: 4 × 100m, 4 × 200m, 100m-200m-300m-400m 
Medley Relay (Medley Relay), 4 × 400m, 4 × 800m, 1200m-400m-800m-1600m 
Distance Medley Relay (Distance Medley Relay), 4 × 1500m. 

Note: The Medley Relay may be run with the legs in a different order in which case 
the appropriate adjustments should be made to the application of Rules 24.14, 24.18, 
24.19 and 24.20 of the Technical Rules. 

24.2 Lines 50mm wide shall be drawn across the track to mark the start of each leg 
distance (scratch line). 

24.3 In the 4 x 100m and the 4 x 200m relays, and for the first and second changes in the 
Medley Relay, each takeover zone shall be 30m long, of which the scratch line is 20m 
from the start of the zone. For the third change in the Medley Relay and in the 4 x 
400m and longer relays each takeover zone shall be 20m long of which the scratch 
line is the centre. The zones shall start and finish at the edges of the zone lines 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  45 



Book C – C2.1 

nearest the start line in the running direction. For each takeover conducted in lanes, a 
designated official shall ensure that the athletes are correctly placed in their takeover 
zone. The designated official shall also ensure that Rule 24.4 of the Technical Rules 
is observed. 

The Umpires must ensure that each athlete from each team takes their position in the correct 
lanes or position. The Starter's Assistants will be responsible for the positioning of the first 
runners and for ensuring that each is supplied with a baton. They may also be assigned to 
assist at any takeover zones which subsequently occur at the start line. Chief Umpires for 
each takeover zone and the umpires placed at their disposal will be responsible for the 
positioning of the subsequent runners. When all athletes are correctly positioned the zone 
Chief Umpire should advise the relevant other officials by the agreed means of 
communication – which for major competitions would usually be by radio.  

They must also ensure that for all takeovers the outgoing runners’ feet are completely inside 
the zone before they commence their movement which eventuates in the taking of the baton. 
This movement may not commence at any point outside the zone. 

24.4 When all or the first portion of a Relay Race is being run in lanes, an athlete may 
place one check-mark on the track within their own lane, by using adhesive tape, 
maximum 0.05m × 0.40m, of a distinctive colour which cannot be confused with other 
permanent markings. No other check-mark may be used. The Judges shall direct the 
relevant athlete(s) to adapt or remove any marks not complying with this Rule. If they 
do not, the Judges shall remove them. 

Note: Serious cases may further be dealt with under Rule 18.5 of the Competition 
Rules and Rule 7.2 of the Technical Rules. 

24.5 The relay baton shall be a smooth hollow tube, circular in section, made of wood, 
metal or any other rigid material in one piece, the length of which shall be 0.28m to 
0.30m. The outside diameter shall be 40mm ± 2mm and it shall not weigh less than 
50g. It should be coloured so as to be easily visible during the race. 

24.6 Baton specifications and interaction guidelines: 

24.6.1 A baton shall be used for all Relay Races held in the Stadium and shall be 
carried by hand throughout the race. At least for competitions conducted 
under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.6 of the International Competition rule, 
each baton shall be numbered and of a different colour and may include a 
timing transponder. 

Note: If possible, the allocation of the colour to each lane or starting order 
position should be shown on the start list. 

24.6.2 Athletes are not permitted to wear gloves or to place material (other than 
those permitted by Rule 6.4.3 of the Technical Rules) or substances on 
their hands in order to obtain a better grip of the baton.  

24.6.3 If dropped, the baton shall be recovered by the athlete who dropped it. 
They may leave their lane to retrieve it provided that, by doing so, they do 
not lessen the distance to be covered. In addition, where the baton is 
dropped in such a way that it moves sideways or forward in the direction of 
running (including beyond the finish line), the athlete who dropped it, after 
retrieving it, must return at least to the point where it was last in their hand, 
before continuing in the race. Provided these procedures are adopted 

46     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

where applicable and no other athlete is impeded, dropping the baton shall 
not result in disqualification. 

  If an athlete does not follow this Rule, their team shall be disqualified. 

24.7 The baton shall be passed within the takeover zone. The passing of the baton 
commences when it is first touched by the receiving athlete and is completed the 
moment it is in the hand of only the receiving athlete. In relation to the takeover zone, 
it is only the position of the baton which is decisive. Passing of the baton outside the 
takeover zone shall result in disqualification. 

In determining the position of the baton, it is the whole baton which must be considered. 

Umpires must be diligent to ensure that they observe any contact with the baton prior to the 
baton entering the change-zone. If the outgoing runner even touches the baton prior to the 
baton being inside the zone, the team will be subject to disqualification. They must also 
ensure that the baton is only in the hand of the receiving athlete before it “leaves” the 
takeover zone. 

24.8 Until the moment when the baton is in the hand of only the receiving athlete, Rule 
17.3 of the Technical Rules shall be applicable only to the incoming athlete. 
Thereafter it shall be applicable only to the receiving athlete. 

Additionally, athletes before receiving and/or after handing over the baton, should 
keep in their lanes or maintain position until the course is clear to avoid obstruction to 
other athletes. Rules 17.3 and 17.4 of the Technical Rules shall not apply to these 
athletes. If, however, an athlete impedes a member of another team, including by 
running out of position or lane, Rule 17.2 of the Technical Rules shall be applied. 

24.9 If during the race an athlete takes or picks up the baton of another team, their team 
shall be disqualified. The other team should not be penalised unless an advantage is 
obtained. 

24.10 Each member of a relay team may run one leg only. Any four athletes from among 
those entered for the competition, whether for that or any other event, may be used in 
the composition of the relay team for any round. However, once a relay team has 
started in a competition, up to a total of four additional athletes may be used as 
substitutes in the composition of the team. If a team does not follow this Rule, it shall 
be disqualified. 

24.11 The composition of a team and the order of running for a relay shall be officially 
declared no later than one hour before the published first call time (the time by which 
the athletes must be present in the Call Room) for the first heat of each round of the 
competition. Further alterations must be verified by a medical officer appointed by the 
Organisers and may be made only until the final call time (the time at which the 
athletes are listed to depart the Call Room) for the particular heat in which the team is 
competing. The team shall compete as named and in the declared order. If a team 
does not follow this Rule, it shall be disqualified. 

24.12 The 4 × 100m race shall be run entirely in lanes. 

24.13 The 4 × 200m race may be run in any of the following ways: 

24.13.1 where possible, entirely in lanes (four bends in lanes), 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  47 



Book C – C2.1 

24.13.2 in lanes for the first two legs, as well as that part of the third leg up to the 
nearer edge of the breakline described in Rule 17.5 of the Technical Rules, 
where athletes may leave their respective lanes (three bends in lanes), 

24.13.3 in lanes for the first leg up to the nearer edge of the breakline described in 
Rule 17.5 of the Technical Rules, where athletes may leave their respective 
lanes (one bend in lanes). 

Note: Where not more than four teams are competing and option 1 is not possible, 
option 3 should be used. 

24.14 The Medley Relay race should be run in lanes for the first two legs, as well as that 
part of the third leg up to the nearer edge of the breakline described in Rule 17.5 of 
the Technical Rules, where athletes may leave their respective lanes (two bends in 
lanes). 

24.15 The 4 × 400m race may be run in either of the following ways: 

24.15.1 in lanes for the first leg, as well as that part of the second leg up to the 
nearer edge of the breakline described in Rule 17.5 of the Technical Rules, 
where athletes may leave their respective lanes (three bends in lanes); 

24.15.2 in lanes for the first leg up to the nearer edge of the breakline described in 
Rule 17.5 of the Technical Rules, where athletes may leave their respective 
lanes (one bend in lanes). 

  Note: Where not more than four teams are competing, Rule 24.15.2 should be used. 

24.16 The 4 × 800m race may be run in either of the following ways: 

24.16.1 in lanes for the first leg up to the nearer edge of the breakline described in 
Rule 17.5 of the Technical Rules, where athletes may leave their respective 
lanes (one bend in lanes); 

24.16.2 without the use of lanes.  

24.17 If an athlete does not follow Rule 24.13, 24.14, 24.15 or 24.16.1 of the Technical 
Rules their team shall be disqualified.  

24.18 The Distance Medley Relay race and the 4 × 1500m race shall be run without the use 
of lanes. 

24.19 For all takeovers, athletes are not permitted to begin running outside their takeover 
zones, and shall start within the zone. If an athlete does not follow this Rule, their 
team shall be disqualified. 

24.20 In the Medley Relay, the athletes running the final leg and in the 4 × 400m race, the 
athletes running the third and fourth legs (or under Rule 24.15.2 of the Technical 
Rules, the second leg) shall, under the direction of a designated official, place 
themselves in their waiting position in the same order (inside to out) as the order of 
their respective team members as they enter the last bend. Once the incoming 
athletes have passed this point, the waiting athletes shall maintain their order, and 
shall not exchange positions at the beginning of the takeover zone. If an athlete does 
not follow this Rule, their team shall be disqualified. 

48     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

Note: In the 4 × 200m race (if this event is not run entirely in lanes) where the 
previous leg is not run in lanes, the athletes shall line up in the order of the start list 
(inside to out). 

24.21 In any race, when lanes are not being used, including when applicable, in 4 × 200m, 
the Medley Relay and 4 × 400m, waiting athletes can take an inner position on the 
track as incoming team members approach, provided they do not jostle or obstruct 
another athlete so as to impede their progress. In 4 × 200m, the Medley Relay and 4 
× 400m, waiting athletes shall maintain the order in accordance with Rule 24.20 of the 
Technical Rules. If an athlete does not follow this Rule, their team shall be 
disqualified. 

24.22 In the case of relay events not covered by this Rule, the relevant competition 
regulations should specify any particular rules that should be applied and the method 
by which the relay should be conducted.  

Chief Umpires must remain at the zone to which they and their Umpires have been assigned. 
Once the athletes are correctly placed in their lanes and the race has started, zone Chief 
Umpires and those Umpires assigned to them are responsible for reporting any 
infringements of both these Rules as well as any other infringements particularly those under 
Rule 17 of the Technical Rules. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  49 



Book C – C2.1 

PART III - FIELD EVENTS 
(In force from 1 November 2019) 

25. (Rule 180)   General Conditions – Field Events 

Practice Trials at the Competition Area 

25.1 At the competition area and before the beginning of the event, each athlete may have 
practice trials. In the case of throwing events, the practice trials will be in draw order 
and always under the supervision of the Judges. 

Whilst in the past the Rules specified that there should be two practice trials for each athlete 
in throwing events, there is currently no such specification. Rule 25.1 of the Technical Rules 
should be interpreted as allowing whatever number of practice trials that may be included in 
the warm-up time available. Whilst for major events, two remains a standard practice, this is 
regarded as a minimum and should time be available and some or all or the athletes request 
additional practice trials, this can be permitted. 

25.2 Once a competition has begun, athletes are not permitted to use, for practice 
purposes, as appropriate, 

25.2.1 the runway or take-off area; 

25.2.2 vaulting poles; 

25.2.3 implements; 

25.2.4 the circles or the ground within the sector with or without implements. 

The application of this Rule should not prevent an athlete from touching, preparing or taping 
their vaulting pole or their selected implement in readiness for their trial provided that it does 
not endanger, delay or obstruct another athlete or other person. It is particularly important 
that the Judges interpret this Rule reasonably so as to ensure the competition proceeds in an 
efficient manner and the athlete is able if they so choose to take their trial immediately their 
time begins. 

Markers 

25.3 Markers, as follows: 

25.3.1 In all Field Events where a runway is used, markers shall be placed 
alongside it, except for High Jump where the markers can be placed on the 
runway. An athlete may use one or two markers (supplied or approved by 
the Organisers) to assist them in their run-up and take-off. If such markers 
are not supplied, they may use adhesive tape but not chalk or similar 
substance nor anything which leaves indelible marks.  

25.3.2 For throws made from a circle, an athlete may use one marker only. This 
marker may be placed only on the ground in the area immediately behind 
or adjacent to the circle but not on any lines or in the landing sector. It must 
be temporary, in position only for the duration of each athlete’s own trial, 
and shall not impair the view of the Judges. No personal markers may be 
placed in or beside the landing area. 

Note: Each marker shall be composed of a single piece only. 

50     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

25.3.3 For Pole Vault, the Organisers should place suitable and safe distance 
markers beside the runway at each 0.5m between the points 2.5m  to 5m 
from the “zero” line and at each 1.0m from the 5m to the 18m point. 

25.3.4 The Judges shall direct the relevant athlete to adapt or remove any marks 
not complying with this Rule. If they do not, the Judges shall remove them. 

 Note: Serious cases may further be dealt with under Rule 18.5 of the 
Competition Rules and Rule 7.2 of the Technical Rules. 

If the ground is wet, the adhesive tape can be fixed to the ground by drawing pins of several 
colours. 

The requirement for each marker to be a single piece should be interpreted sensibly by the 
Referee. If for example the manufacturer has used two pieces connected to make a single 
structure which is intended to be used that way, it should be allowed. Similarly, if an athlete 
chooses to place both their markers in the same place or, in the case of the High Jump, an 
athlete who tears the tape they are given into one or more pieces to make a single marker of 
a different shape to stand out more clearly, these should also be acceptable. 

Rule 25.3.3 of the Technical Rules is designed to assist athletes and their coaches in 
determining their take-off points and the progress on the runway. There is no set concept as 
to how they should be constructed or look – with Organisers and Referees having discretion 
in interpreting what is acceptable and fair within the intention of the Rule in each particular 
competition environment. 

Performance Markers and Wind Socks 

25.4 Performance Markers and Wind Socks, as follows: 

25.4.1 A distinctive flag or marker may be provided to mark the existing World 
Record and, when appropriate, the existing Area, National or Meeting 
Record. 

25.4.2 One or more wind sock(s) should be placed in an appropriate position in all 
jumping events, Discus Throw and Javelin Throw, to show the athletes the 
approximate direction and strength of the wind. 

Competing Order and Trials 

25.5 Except where Rule 25.6 of the Technical Rules applies, the athletes shall compete in 
an order drawn by lot.  

 If any athlete by their own decision makes a trial in an order different from that 
previously determined, Rule 18.5 of the Competition Rules and Rule 7.2 of the 
Technical Rules shall be applied. In the case of a warning, the result of the trial 
(valid or failure) will stand. If there is a Qualification Round, there shall be a fresh 
drawing of lot for the final. 

25.6 Except for the High Jump and Pole Vault, no athlete shall have more than one trial 
recorded in any one round of trials of the competition. 

In all Field Events, except for the High Jump and Pole Vault, where there are more 
than eight athletes, each athlete shall be allowed three trials and the eight athletes 
with the best valid performances shall be allowed three additional trials, unless the 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  51 



Book C – C2.1 

applicable regulations provide otherwise. 

In the case of the last qualifying place, if two or more athletes have the same best 
performances, Rule 25.22 of the Technical Rules shall be applied. If it is thus 
determined that there has been a tie, the tying athletes shall be allowed any 
additional trials, permitted by the applicable regulations. 

Where there are eight athletes or fewer, each athlete shall be allowed six trials, 
unless the applicable regulations provide otherwise. If more than one fail to achieve a 
valid trial during the first three rounds of trials, such athletes shall compete in 
subsequent rounds of trials before those with valid trials, in the same relative order 
according to the original draw. 

In both cases: 

25.6.1 the competing order for any subsequent rounds of trials shall be in the 
reverse ranking order recorded after the first three rounds of trials, unless 
the applicable regulations provide otherwise; 

25.6.2 when the competing order is to be changed and there is a tie for any 
position, those tying shall compete in the same relative order according to 
the original draw. 

Note (i): For Vertical Jumps, see Rule 26.2 of the Technical Rules. 

Note (ii): If one or more athlete(s) is permitted by the Referee to continue in a 
competition “under protest” in accordance with Rule 8.5 of the Technical Rules, such 
athletes shall compete in all subsequent rounds of trials before all others continuing in 
the competition and if more than one, in the same relative order according to the 
original draw. 

Note (iii): The regulations of the relevant governing body may specify the number of 
trials (provided it is no more than six) and the number of athletes which may progress 
to each additional round of trials after the third. 

Note (iv): The regulations of the relevant governing body may specify that the 
competing order be changed again after any further round of trials after the third. 

Recording of Trials 

25.7 Except in High Jump and Pole Vault, a valid trial shall be indicated by the 
measurement taken. 

 For the standard abbreviations and symbols to be used in all other cases, see Rule 
25.4 of the Competition Rules. 

Completion of Trials 

25.8 The Judge shall not raise a white flag to indicate a valid trial until a trial is completed. 
The Judge may reconsider a decision if they believe they raised the incorrect flag. 

The completion of a valid trial shall be determined as follows: 

25.8.1 in the case of Vertical Jumps, once the judge has determined that there is 
no failure according to Rules 27.2, 28.2 or 28.4 of the Technical Rules; 

52     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

25.8.2 in the case of Horizontal Jumps, once the athlete leaves the landing area in 
accordance with Rule 30.2 of the Technical Rules; 

25.8.3 in the case of throwing events, once the athlete leaves the circle or runway 
in accordance with Rule 32.17 of the Technical Rules. 

Qualification Round 

25.9 A Qualification Round shall be held in Field Events in which the number of athletes is 
too large to allow the competition to be conducted satisfactorily in a single round 
(final). When a Qualification Round is held, all athletes shall compete in, and qualify 
through, that round except that the relevant governing body may, for one or more 
events, authorise the conduct of additional qualification round(s) either at the same or 
at one or more earlier competition(s) to determine some or all of the athletes who 
shall be entitled to participate and in which round of the competition. Such procedure 
and any other means (such as achieving entry standards during a specified period, by 
specified placing in a designated competition or by rankings) by which an athlete is 
entitled to participate, and in which round of the competition, shall be set out in the 
regulations for each competition. 

 Performances accomplished in a Qualification Round or additional preliminary 
qualification round(s) shall not be considered as part of the final. 

25.10 The athletes shall normally be divided into two or more groups such that the groups 
are of approximately equal strength and whenever possible so that representatives of 
each Member or team shall be placed in different groups. Unless there are facilities 
for the groups to compete at the same time and under the same conditions, each 
group should start its practice trials immediately after the previous group has finished. 

25.11 It is recommended that, in competitions of more than three days, a rest day be 
provided between Qualifying Rounds and the finals in the vertical jumping events. 

25.12 The conditions for qualifying, the qualifying standard and the number of athletes in 
the final, shall be decided by the Technical Delegate(s). If no Technical Delegate(s) 
have been appointed, the conditions shall be decided by the Organisers. For 
competitions conducted under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.6 of the International 
Competition definition, there should be at least 12 athletes in the final unless 
otherwise provided in the regulations for the competition. 

25.13 In a Qualifying Round, apart from the High Jump and the Pole Vault, each athlete 
shall be allowed up to three trials. Once an athlete has achieved the qualifying 
standard, they shall not continue in the Qualifying Round. 

25.14 In a Qualifying Round for the High Jump and the Pole Vault, the athletes, not 
eliminated after three consecutive failures, shall continue to compete according to 
Rule 26.2 of the Technical Rules (including passing a trial) until the end of the last 
trial at the height set as the qualifying standard, unless the number of athletes for the 
final has been reached as defined in Rule 25.12 of the Technical Rules. Once it is 
determined that an athlete will be in the final, they shall not continue in the Qualifying 
Round. 

25.15 If no athletes, or fewer than the required number of athletes, achieve the pre-set 
qualifying standard, the group of finalists shall be expanded to that number by adding 
athletes according to their performances in the Qualifying Round. In the case of the 
last qualifying place, if two or more athletes have the same best performances in the 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  53 



Book C – C2.1 

overall results of the competition, Rule 25.22 or 26.8 of the Technical Rules as 
appropriate shall be applied. If it is thus determined that there has been a tie, the 
tying athletes shall be placed in the final. 

25.16 When a Qualifying Round for the High Jump and Pole Vault is held in two 
simultaneous groups, it is recommended that the bar be raised to each height at the 
same time in each group.  

It is important when seeding High Jump and Pole Vault qualifying groups that the 
requirements of Rule 25.10 and 25.16 of the Technical Rules are both observed. The 
Technical Delegates and the ITO/Referee must follow closely the progress of the qualifying 
rounds of the High Jump and the Pole Vault to ensure that, on the one hand, the athletes 
must jump, as long as they are not eliminated under Rule 26.2 of the Technical Rules until 
the qualifying standard has been reached (unless the number of athletes for the final has 
been reached as defined in Rule 25.12 of the Technical Rules) and, on the other hand, any 
tie between athletes in the overall standings in the two groups is resolved according to Rule 
26.8 of the Technical Rules. Close attention must also be kept to the application of Rule 
25.14 of the Technical Rules to ensure that athletes do not unnecessarily continue in the 
competition once it is certain that they will be in the final regardless of what may happen to 
the other athletes continuing to compete in the Qualification Round. 

Time Allowed for Trials 

25.17 The official responsible shall indicate to an athlete that all is ready for the trial to 
begin, and the period allowed for this trial shall commence from that moment. 

  For the Pole Vault, the time shall begin when the crossbar has been adjusted 
according to the previous wishes of the athlete. No additional time will be allowed for 
further adjustment. 

  If the time allowed elapses after an athlete has started their trial, that trial should not 
be disallowed.  

 If after the time for a trial has begun, an athlete decides not to attempt that trial, it shall 
be considered a failure once that period allowed for the trial has elapsed. 

 The following times shall not be exceeded. If the time is exceeded, unless a 
determination is made under Rule 25.18 of the Technical Rules, the trial shall be 
recorded as a failure: 

Individual Events 

          High Jump   Pole Vault    Other 
More than 3 athletes (or for the  
very first trial of each athlete)   1 min    1 min    1 min 
2 or 3 athletes       1.5 min    2 min    1 min 
1 athlete        3 min    5 min    - 
Consecutive trials      2 min    3 min    2 min 

 

 
 
 

54     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

Combined Events 

          High Jump   Pole Vault   Other 
More than 3 athletes (or for the  
very first trial of each athlete)   1 min    1 min    1 min 
2 or 3 athletes       1.5 min    2 min    1 min 
1 athlete        2 min    3 min    - 
Consecutive trials      2 min    3 min    2 min 

Note (i): A clock which shows the remaining time allowed for a trial should be visible to an 
athlete. In addition, an official shall raise and keep raised, a yellow flag, or otherwise indicate, 
during the final 15 seconds of the time allowed. 

Note (ii): In the High Jump and Pole Vault, any change in the time period allowed for a trial, 
except the time specified for consecutive trials, shall not be applied until the bar is raised to a 
new height. In the other Field Events, except for the time specified for consecutive trials, the 
time limit allowed will not change. 

Note (iii): When calculating the number of athletes remaining in the competition, this shall 
include those athletes who could be involved in a jump off for first place.  

Note (iv): When only one athlete (who has won the competition) remains in High jump or 
Pole Vault and is attempting a World Record or other record relevant to the competition, the 
time limit shall be increased by one minute beyond  those set out above. 

Whilst the Judges should always use a system which notifies or calls the next athlete who is 
to take their trial plus the one who is to follow, this is essential when the time allowed for an 
athlete to take their trial is one minute. They must also ensure that the competition area is 
completely ready for the next trial before calling the athlete and then starting the clock. The 
Judges, and the Referee in particular, must be fully aware of the current competition 
environment, including direction from Event Presentation, when deciding when to start the 
clock or to “time out” and call a failure. 

Particular circumstances which should be taken into account are the availability of the 
runway for an athlete’s trial in High Jump and Javelin Throw (when Track Events are being 
held simultaneously in the same competition area) and the distance for athletes to walk to 
and through the cage to reach the circle to take their trial in Discus Throw and Hammer 
Throw. 

To be clear, the time limit will not change in the final round of any horizontal Field Event, 
once only 2 or 3 athletes remain to take their trials. The 1 minute time limit only applies when 
a Horizontal Field Event has only 2 or 3 athletes on the original start list (except for the very 
first trial of each athlete). 

Replacement Trials 

25.18 If, for any reason beyond their control, an athlete is hampered in a trial and is unable 
to take it, or the trial cannot be correctly recorded, the Referee shall have the 
authority to award them a replacement trial or to re-set the time either partially or in 
full. 

  No change in the order shall be permitted. A reasonable time shall be allowed for any 
replacement trial according to the particular circumstances of the case. In cases when 
the competition has progressed before the replacement trial is awarded, it should be 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  55 



Book C – C2.1 

taken before any other subsequent trials are then made. 

There are several situations in which it may be appropriate for an athlete to be given a 
replacement trial including where because of procedural or technical failure a trial is not 
measured and it is not possible for a re-measurement to be accurately made. Whilst this 
should be avoided by good systems and backups, with technology being used more and 
more provision needs to be made for when things do go wrong. As no change in the 
competition order should be permitted (unless the problem is not immediately discovered and 
the competition has continued), the Referee must decide how long should be allowed for the 
replacement trial taking into account the specific circumstances of each particular case. 

Absence during Competition 

25.19 An athlete may not leave the immediate area of the event during the progress of the 
competition, unless they have the permission of, and is accompanied by, an official. If 
possible, a warning should be given first, but for subsequent instances or in serious 
cases the athlete shall be disqualified. 

Change of Competition Area or Time 

25.20 The Technical Delegate(s) or appropriate Referee shall have the authority to change 
the place or time of the competition if, in their opinion, the conditions justify it. Such a 
change should be made only after a round of trials has been completed. 

Note: Neither the wind strength nor its change of direction is sufficient condition to 
change the place nor time of the competition. 

The phrase "round of trials" instead of "rounds" is designed to ensure a clear difference 
between a "round of trials" within a Field Event competition and a "round of the competition" 
(i.e. a Qualification Round or a Final). 

If the conditions make it impossible to complete a round of trials before a change of place or 
time is made, the Technical Delegate (through the Referee) or Referee should normally void 
those trials already completed in that round of trials and recommence the competition at the 
beginning of that round of trials. See also Rule 11.3 of the Technical Rules. 

Result 

25.21 Each athlete shall be credited with the best of all their trials, including, in the case of 
High Jump and Pole Vault, those achieved in resolving a tie for first place. 

Ties 

25.22 Except for the High Jump and Pole Vault, the second best performance of the 
athletes having the same best performances shall determine whether there has been 
a tie. Then, if necessary, the third best, and so on. If the athletes are still equal 
following the application of this Rule 25.22, it shall be determined to be a tie. 

  Except in Vertical Jumps, in the case of a tie for any place, including first place, the tie 
shall remain. 

  Note: For Vertical Jumps, see Rules 26.8, 26.9 of the Technical Rules. 

56     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

Vertical Jumps 

26. (Rule 181)   General Conditions – Vertical Jumps 

26.1 Before the competition begins, the Referee or the Chief Judge shall announce to the 
athletes the starting height and the subsequent heights to which the bar will be raised 
at the end of each round of trials, until there is only one athlete remaining having won 
the competition, or there is a tie for first place. (For Combined Events, see Rule 
39.8.4 of the Technical Rules). 

Trials 

26.2 An athlete may commence jumping / vaulting at any height previously announced by 
the Referee or Chief Judge and may jump / vault at their own discretion at any 
subsequent height. Three consecutive failures, regardless of the height at which any 
of such failures occur, disqualify from further jumping / vaulting except in the case of 
a tie for first place. 

The effect of this Rule is that an athlete may pass their second or third trial at a 
particular height (after failing first or second time) and still jump / vault at a 
subsequent height. 

If an athlete passes a trial at a certain height, they may not make any subsequent trial 
at that height, except in the case of a jump-off for first place. 

In the case of the High Jump and Pole Vault, if an athlete is not present when all 
other athletes who are present have completed the competition, the Referee shall 
deem that such athlete(s) has abandoned the competition, once the period for one 
further trial has elapsed. 

26.3 Even after all the other athletes have failed, an athlete is entitled to continue jumping 
until they have forfeited their right to compete further. 

26.4 Unless there is only one athlete remaining and they have won the competition: 

26.4.1 the bar shall never be raised by less than 2cm in the High Jump and 5cm in 
the Pole Vault after each round of trials; and 

26.4.2 the increment of the raising of the bar shall never increase. 

These Rules 26.4.1 and 26.4.2 of the Technical Rules shall not apply once the 
athletes still competing all agree to raise it to a World Record (or other record relevant 
to the competition) height directly. 

After an athlete has won the competition, the height or heights to which the bar is 
raised shall be decided by the athlete, in consultation with the relevant Judge or 
Referee. 

  Note: This Rule does not apply for a Combined Events Competition. 

Height Measurement 

26.5 In all vertical jumping events, measurements shall be made, in whole centimetres, 
perpendicularly from the ground to the lowest part of the upper side of the bar. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  57 



Book C – C2.1 

26.6 Any measurement of a new height shall be made before athletes attempt such height. 
A re-measurement should be made if the bar has been substituted. In all cases of 
Records, the Judges shall also re-check the measurement before each subsequent 
Record attempt if the bar has been touched since last measured. 

Crossbar 

26.7 The crossbar shall be made of fibre-glass, or other suitable material but not metal, 
circular in cross-section except for the end pieces. It shall be coloured so as to be 
visible to all sighted athletes. The overall length of the crossbar shall be 4.00m ± 
0.02m in the High Jump and 4.50m ± 0.02m in Pole Vault. The maximum weight of 
the crossbar shall be 2kg in the High Jump and 2.25kg in Pole Vault. The diameter of 
the circular part of the crossbar shall be 30mm ± 1mm. 

The crossbar shall consist of three parts - the circular bar and two end pieces, each 
30mm-35mm wide and 0.15m-0.20m long for the purpose of resting on the supports 
of the uprights. 

These end pieces shall be circular or semi-circular with one clearly defined flat 
surface on which the bar rests on the crossbar supports. This flat surface may not be 
higher than the centre of the vertical cross section of the crossbar. The end pieces 
shall be hard and smooth. They shall not be of, or covered with rubber or any other 
material which has the effect of increasing the friction between them and the 
supports. 

The crossbar shall have no bias and, when in place, shall sag a maximum of 20mm in 
the High Jump and 30mm in Pole Vault. 

Control of elasticity: Hang a 3kg weight in the middle of the crossbar when in position. 
It may sag a maximum of 70mm in the High Jump and 0.11m in Pole Vault. 

 

 

 
Figure TR26 (Rule 181) - Alternative ends for crossbar 

Placings 

26.8 If two or more athletes clear the same final height, the procedure to decide the places 
will be the following: 

26.8.1 The athlete with the lowest number of jumps at the height last cleared shall 
be awarded the higher place. 

26.8.2 If the athletes are equal following the application of Rule 26.8.1 of the 
Technical Rules, the athlete with the lowest total of failures throughout the 

58     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

competition up to and including the height last cleared, shall be awarded 
the higher place. 

26.8.3 If the athletes are still equal following the application of Rule 26.8.2 of the 
Technical Rules, the athletes concerned shall be awarded the same place 
unless it concerns the first place. 

26.8.4 If it concerns the first place, a jump-off between these athletes shall be 
conducted in accordance with Rule 26.9 of the Technical Rules, unless 
otherwise decided, either in advance according to the regulations applying 
to the competition, or during the competition but before the start of the 
event by the Technical Delegate(s) or the Referee if no Technical Delegate 
has been appointed. If no jump-off is carried out, including where the 
relevant athletes at any stage decide not to jump further, the tie for first 
place shall remain. 

 Note: This Rule 26.8.4 does not apply for a Combined Events Competition. 

There are a number of ways in which a jump-off may be terminated: 

a. by provision in advance of the competition set out in the regulations; 
b. by decision during the competition by the Technical Delegate (or Referee if 

there is no Technical Delegate); 
c. by decision of the athletes not to jump further prior to or at any stage of the 

jump-off. 

Whilst any decision by the Technical Delegate or Referee not to conduct a jump-off should 
be made before the start of the event, there may be circumstances where this might not be 
possible such as where conditions at the place of competition make it impossible or 
undesirable to begin or continue with a jump-off. The Referee could use their powers under 
Rule 18 of the Competition Rules or Rule 25 of the Technical Rules to deal with this situation. 
It is emphasised that the athletes may make the decision not to jump further either before or 
at any stage during the jump-off. 

Jump-off 

26.9 Jump-off, as follows: 

26.9.1 Athletes concerned must jump at every height until a decision is reached or 
until all of the athletes concerned decide not to jump further. 

26.9.2 Each athlete shall have one jump at each height. 

26.9.3 The jump-off shall start at the next height determined in accordance with 
Rule 26.1 of the Technical Rules after the height last cleared by the 
athletes concerned. 

26.9.4 If no decision is reached the bar shall be raised if more than one athlete 
concerned were successful, or lowered if all of them failed, by 2cm for the 
High Jump and 5cm for the Pole Vault. 

26.9.5 If an athlete is not jumping at a height, they automatically forfeit any claim 
to a higher place. If only one other athlete then remains, they are declared 
the winner regardless of whether they attempt that height. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  59 



Book C – C2.1 

High Jump - Example 

Heights announced by the Chief Judge at the beginning of competition: 1.75m; 1.80m; 
1.84m; 1.88m; 1.91m; 1.94m; 1.97m; 1.99m… 

Athlete Heights Failures Jump Off Pos
 1.75m 1.80m 1.84m 1.88m 1.91m  1.94m  1.97m   1.91m   1.89m   1.91m  

A   O XO O XO X- XX  2 X O X 2 
B   -      XO -    XO - - XXX 2 X O O 1 
C - O XO XO - XXX  2 X X  3 
D - XO XO XO XXX   3    4 

 “A”, “B”, “C” and “D” all cleared 1.88m. 

Rules 26.8 and 26.9 of the Technical Rules now come into operation; the Judges add up the 
total number of failures, up to and including the height last cleared, i.e. 1.88m. 

"D" has more failures than "A", "B" or "C", and is therefore awarded fourth place. "A", "B" and 
"C" are still equal and as this concerns the first place, they shall jump at 1.91m which is the 
next height after the height last cleared by the athletes concerned. 

As all the athletes failed, the bar is lowered to 1.89m for another jump-off. As only "C" failed 
to clear 1.89m, the two other athletes, "A" and "B" shall have a third jump-off at 1.91m which 
only "B" cleared and is therefore declared the winner. 

When an athlete unilaterally decides to withdraw from a jump-off, the other athlete (if only 
one remains) will be declared the winner in accordance with Rule 26.9.5 of the Technical 
Rules. It is not necessary for that athlete to attempt the applicable height. Where more than 
one athlete remains in the jump-off, the jump-off continues with those athletes, with the 
athlete who withdrew being placed according to their then finishing place, they having 
forfeited any right to any higher placing, including first, then remaining. 

Extraneous Forces  

26.10 When it is clear that the bar has been displaced by a force not associated with an 
athlete (e.g. a gust of wind) 

26.10.1 if such displacement occurs after an athlete has cleared the bar without 
touching it, then the trial shall be considered successful, or  

26.10.2 if such displacement occurs under any other circumstance, a new trial shall 
be awarded. 

27. (Rule 182)   High Jump 

Competition 

27.1 An athlete shall take off from one foot. 

27.2 An athlete fails if: 

27.2.1 After the jump, the bar does not remain on the supports because of the 
action of the athlete whilst jumping; or 

27.2.2 They touch the ground including the landing area beyond the vertical plane 
through the nearer edge of the crossbar, either between or outside the 

60     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

uprights with any part of their body, without first clearing the bar. However, 
if when they jump, an athlete touches the landing area with their foot and in 
the opinion of the Judge, no advantage is gained, the jump for that reason 
shall not be considered a failure. 

Note: To assist in the implementation of this Rule a white line 50mm wide 
shall be drawn (usually by adhesive tape or similar material) between 
points 3m outside of each upright, the nearer edge of the line being drawn 
along the vertical plane through the nearer edge of the crossbar. 

27.2.3 They touch the crossbar or the vertical section of the uprights when running 
up without jumping. 

Runway and Take-off Area 

27.3 The minimum width of the runway shall be 16m and the minimum length of the 
runway shall be 15m except in competitions held under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.5 
and 1.6 of the International Competition definition, where the minimum length shall be 
25m.  

27.4 The maximum overall downward inclination in the last 15m of the runway and take-off 
area shall not exceed 1:167 (0.6%) along any radius of the semi-circular area centred 
midway between the uprights and having the minimum radius specified in Rule 27.3 
of the Technical Rules. The landing area should be placed so that the athlete’s 
approach is up the inclination. 

Note: Runways and take-off areas to the 2018/19 specifications remain acceptable. 

27.5 The take-off area shall be level or any inclination shall be in accordance with the 
requirements of Rule 27.4 of the Technical Rules and the World Athletics Track and 
Field Facilities Manual. 

Apparatus 

27.6 Any style of uprights or posts may be used, provided they are rigid. 

 They shall have supports for the crossbar firmly fixed to them. 

 They shall be sufficiently tall as to exceed the actual height to which the crossbar is 
raised by at least 0.10m. 

 The distance between the uprights shall be not less than 4.00m nor more than 4.04m. 

27.7 The uprights or posts shall not be moved during the competition unless the Referee 
considers that either the take-off or landing area has become unsuitable. 

 In such a case, the change shall be made only after a round of trials has been 
completed. 

27.8 The crossbar supports shall be flat and rectangular, 40mm wide and 60mm long. 
They shall be firmly fixed to the uprights and immovable during the jump and shall 
each face the opposite upright. The ends of the crossbar shall rest on them in such a 
manner that, if the crossbar is touched by an athlete, it will easily fall to the ground, 
either forwards or backwards. The surface of the supports shall be smooth. 

 The supports shall not be of, or covered with, rubber or with any other material which 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  61 



Book C – C2.1 

has the effect of increasing the friction between them and the surface of the crossbar, 
nor may they have any kind of springs.  

The supports shall be the same height above the take-off area immediately below 
each end of the crossbar. 

 

 

 

Figure TR27 (Rule 182) - High Jump uprights and crossbar 

27.9 There shall be a space of at least 10mm between the ends of the crossbar and the 
uprights. 

Landing Area 

27.10 For competitions under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.5 and 1.6 of the International 
Competition definition, the landing area shall be not smaller than 6m long x 4m wide x 
0.7m high behind the vertical plane of the crossbar. 

Note: The uprights and landing area should also be designed so that there is a 
clearance of at least 0.1m between them when in use, to avoid displacement of the 
crossbar through a movement of the landing area causing contact with the uprights. 

For other competitions, the landing area should measure not less than 5m long x 3m wide x 
0.7m high. 

Team of Officials 

For a High Jump event, it is recommended to allocate the available officials as follows: 

a. The Chief Judge will watch over the whole of the event and verify the measurements. 
They must be provided with two flags - white to indicate if the trial is valid and red if it 
is a failure. They must place themselves so as to manage two matters in particular: 

i. Frequently it happens that the cross-bar having been touched by an athlete 
trembles on the supports. The Chief Judge, depending on the position of the 
cross-bar, must decide when the vibrating of the bar must be stopped and the 
appropriate flag raised – particularly the special situations as covered in Rule 
26.10 of the Technical Rules; and 

62     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

ii. Since the athlete may not touch the crossbar, the vertical section of the uprights or 
ground beyond the vertical plane of the nearer edge of the crossbar it is important 
to keep a watch on the position of the athlete’s feet in situations where when 
deciding not to complete a trial they run to the side or goes “under” the bar. 

b. Two Judges, one on either side of the landing area and slightly standing back in 
charge of replacing the crossbar when it falls, and assisting the Chief Judge in 
applying the above Rules. 

c. Judge - a recorder scoring the results sheet and calling each athlete (and the one 
who is to follow). 

d. Judge in charge of the scoreboard (trial-number-result). 

e. Judge in charge of the clock indicating to the athletes that they have a certain time to 
take their trial. 

f. Judge in charge of athletes. 

Note (i): This is the traditional setting-up of the officials. In major competitions, where a data 
system and electronic scoreboards are available, specialised personnel are certainly 
required. To be clear in these cases, the progress and scoring of a Field Event is followed by 
both the recorder and by the data system. 

Note (ii): Officials and equipment must be placed in such a way as not to obstruct the 
athlete’s way nor impede the view of the spectators. 

Note (iii): A space must be reserved for a wind-sock to indicate the wind direction and 
strength. 

28. (Rule 183) Pole Vault 

Competition 

28.1 Athletes may have the crossbar moved only in the direction of the landing area so 
that the edge of the crossbar nearest the athlete can be positioned at any point from 
that directly above the back end of the box to a point 80cm in the direction of the 
landing area. 

 An athlete shall, before the competition starts, inform the appropriate official of the 
position of the crossbar they require for their first trial and this position shall be 
recorded. 

 If subsequently an athlete wants to make any changes, they should immediately 
inform the appropriate official before the crossbar has been set in accordance with 
their initial wishes. Failure to do this shall lead to the start of their time limit. 

Note: A line, 10mm wide and of distinguishable colour, shall be drawn at right angles 
to the axis of the runway, in line with the back end of the box (“zero” line). A similar 
line, up to 50mm wide, shall appear on the surface of the landing area and be 
prolonged as far as the outside edge of the uprights. The edge of the line nearer to 
the approaching athlete coincides with the back end of the box. 

 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  63 



Book C – C2.1 

28.2 An athlete fails if: 

28.2.1 after the vault, the bar does not remain on both pegs because of the action 
of an athlete whilst vaulting; or 

28.2.2 they touch the ground, including the landing area, beyond the vertical plane 
through the back end of the box with any part of their body or with the pole, 
without first clearing the bar; or 

28.2.3 after leaving the ground, they place their lower hand above the upper one 
or moves the upper hand higher on the pole; or 

28.2.4 during the vault, they steady or replace the bar with their hand(s). 

Note (i): It is not a failure if an athlete runs outside the white lines marking the runway 
at any point. 

Note (ii) It is not a failure if the pole touches the landing mats, in the course of trial, 
after properly being planted in the box. 

The following should be noted in applying and interpreting Rule 28.2 of the Technical Rules: 

a. the bar must be dislodged because of the action of the athlete "whilst 
vaulting". So, if the athlete after correctly retrieving their pole (so as not to 
infringe Rule 28.4 of the Technical Rules) were then to hit the crossbar or the 
uprights with the pole so that it was dislodged, this would not amount to a 
failure since it was not because of the action of the athlete whilst vaulting, 
unless the crossbar was still moving and, as a result, the Judge had not yet 
raised the white flag; 

b. to take into account the effect of Note (ii) as there will be many occasions 
when the pole on bending will touch the landing area beyond the zero line; 

c. to be aware of the possibility that the athlete can actually take-off it such a 
way that their body or the bend of the pole will penetrate the vertical plane 
through the zero line but then they return to the runway without attempting to 
clear the bar. Provided that they have time left for their trial and they did not 
touch the ground beyond the zero line, they may continue with the trial. This 
also applies in cases where the athlete during the time for his trial is, for any 
reason, placing the pole in the box or otherwise through the vertical plane of 
the zero line and the pole touches the ground beyond the zero line, this is a 
failure; 

d. Judges must take particular care to detect whether any action prohibited 
under Rule 28.2.4 of the Technical Rules has occurred. Not only does it mean 
that the relevant Judge must keep an eye on the vaulter throughout the vault, 
but they must determine that such action was not merely incidental touching 
as the athlete cleared the bar. In general for Rule 28.2.4 of the Technical 
Rules to be applied there should be some direct action on behalf of the athlete 
to steady or replace the bar. 

e. there is a common practice where athletes return to the box after a trial 
(whether it is a clearance or failure) and place the pole in the box to check 
their take-off position. Provided this occurs after the trial is completed in 
accordance with Rule 25.8 of the Technical Rules and before the time for the 
next athlete’s trial begins and does not otherwise delay the conduct of the 
competition, it is allowed. 

64     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

28.3 Athletes may, during the competition, place a substance on their hands or on the 
pole, in order to obtain a better grip. The use of gloves is permitted. 

Whilst there is no prohibition on wearing gloves or the use of permitted substances on gloves 
this practice should be monitored by Referees in case the practice causes concern and gives 
rise to possible issue of unfair assistance. 

28.4 After the release of the pole, no one including the athlete shall be allowed to touch 
the pole unless it is falling away from the bar or uprights. If it is touched, however, 
and the Referee is of the opinion that, but for the intervention, the bar would have 
been knocked off, the vault shall be recorded as a failure. 

This is one of the few rules where behaviour by an official can result in a failure being called. 
It is important therefore that the upright Judges are diligent in ensuring that they do not touch 
or catch a pole unless it is clearly falling away from the crossbar and/or uprights. 

28.5 If, in making a trial, an athlete's pole is broken, it shall not be counted as a failure and 
they shall be awarded a replacement trial. 

Runway 

28.6 The minimum length of the runway, measured from the “zero” line, shall be 40m and 
where conditions permit, 45m. It shall have a width of 1.22m ± 0.01m and shall be 
marked by white lines 50mm in width. 

Note: For all tracks constructed before 1 January 2004 the runway may have a width 
of maximum 1.25m. However, when such a runway is fully resurfaced, the lane width 
shall comply with this Rule. 

28.7 The maximum lateral inclination of the runway should be 1:100 (1%) unless special 
circumstances exist which justify World Athletics providing an exemption and, in the 
last 40m of the runway, the overall downward inclination in the direction of running 
shall not exceed 1:1000 (0.1%). 

Apparatus 

28.8 The take-off for the Pole Vault shall be from a box. It shall be constructed of suitable 
material, with rounded or soft upper edges and shall be sunk level with the runway. It 
shall be 1.00m in length, measured along the inside of the bottom of the box, 0.60m 
in width at the front end and tapering to 0.15m in width at the bottom of the stop 
board. The length of the box at runway level and the depth of the stop board are 
determined by the angle of 105° formed between the base and the stop board. 
(Tolerances on dimensions and angles: ± 0.01m and − 0°/ + 1°) 

The base of the box shall slope from runway level at the front end to a vertical 
distance below ground level of 0.20m at the point where it meets the stop board. The 
box should be constructed in such a manner that the sides slope outwards and end 
next to the stop board at an angle of approximately 120° to the base. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  65 



Book C – C2.1 

 

Figure (a) TR28 (Rule 183) - Pole Vault box (top and side view) 

Note: An athlete may place padding around the box for additional protection during 
any of their trials. The placement of such equipment shall be done within the time 
allowed for the athlete’s trial and shall be removed by the athlete immediately after 
their trial is completed. At competitions under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.5 and 1.6 of 
the International Competition definition this shall be provided by the organisers. 

28.9 Any style of uprights or posts may be used, provided they are rigid. The metallic 
structure of the base and the lower part of the uprights above the landing area must 
be covered with padding of appropriate material in order to provide protection to the 
athletes and the poles. 

28.10 The crossbar shall rest on horizontal pegs so that if it is touched by an athlete or their 
pole, it will fall easily to the ground in the direction of the landing area. The pegs shall 
be without notches or indentations of any kind, of uniform thickness throughout and 
not more than 13mm in diameter. 

  They shall not extend more than 55mm from the supporting members, which shall be 
smooth. The vertical peg backings, which shall also be smooth and be constructed in 
a way that the crossbar cannot rest on the top of them, shall extend 35mm-40mm 
above the pegs. 

The distance between the pegs shall be 4.28m-4.37m. The pegs shall not be of, or 
covered with, rubber or with any other material which has the effect of increasing the 
friction between them and the surface of the bar, nor may they have any kind of 
springs. The pegs should support the bar in the middle of the end pieces. The 
crossbar supports shall be at the same height above the surfaces supporting the two 
upright metal bases. 

Note: To lessen the chance of injury to an athlete by their falling on the feet of the 
uprights, the pegs supporting the crossbar may be placed upon extension arms 
permanently attached to the uprights, thus allowing the uprights to be placed wider 
apart, without increasing the length of the crossbar (see Figure (b) TR28). 

66     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

 

Figure (b) TR28 (Rule 183) - Pole Vault crossbar support 
(view from landing area and top view) 

Vaulting Poles 

28.11 Athletes may use their own poles. No athlete shall use any other athlete's pole except 
with the consent of the owner. 

 The pole may be of any material or combination of materials and of any length or 
diameter, but the basic surface must be smooth.  

 The pole may have layers of tape at the grip end (to protect the hand) and of tape 
and/or any other suitable material at the bottom end (to protect the pole). Any tape at 
the grip end must be uniform except for incidental overlapping and must not result in 
any sudden change in diameter, such as the creation of any “ring” on the pole. 

Only "regular" taping in accordance with the Rule is allowed at the grip end of the pole - 
rings, loops and the like are not permitted. There be any restriction on how far up or down 
the pole such taping extends but it should be for the purpose for which it is intended - to 
protect the hand. There is, however, no restriction at the bottom end of the pole and, in 
general, any form of taping or protection is permitted there - provided it does not give the 
athlete any advantage. 

Landing Area 

28.12 For competitions under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.5 and 1.6 of the International 
Competition definition, the landing area shall be not smaller than 6m long (behind the 
zero line and excluding the front pieces) x 6m wide x 0.8m high. The front pieces 
must be at least 2m long. 

 The sides of the landing area nearest to the box shall be placed 0.10m to 0.15m from 
the box and shall slope away from the box at an angle of approximately 45° (see 
Figure (c) TR28). 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  67 



Book C – C2.1 

For other competitions, the landing area should measure not less than 5m long (excluding 
the front pieces) x 5m wide x 0.8m high. 

 

 

Figure (c) TR28 (Rule 183) - Pole Vault landing area (top and side views) 

Team of Officials 

For a Pole Vault event, it is recommended to allocate the available officials as follows: 

a. The Chief Judge will watch over the whole of the event and verify the measurements. 
They must be provided with two flags - white to indicate if the trial is valid and red if it 
is a failure. They must place themselves so as to manage two matters in particular: 

i. Frequently it happens that the cross-bar having been touched by an athlete 
trembles on the supports. The Chief Judge, depending on the position of the 
cross-bar, must decide when the vibrating of the bar must be stopped and the 
appropriate flag raised – particularly the special situations covered in Rules 
26.10 and 28.4 of the Technical Rules; and 

68     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

ii. Since before the take-off, the athlete may not touch the ground beyond the 
vertical plane through the back end of the box they must place themselves in 
such manner as to be able to determine this. 

b. Two Judges, one on either side, in line with the back of the box, in charge of replacing 
the crossbar when it falls, and assisting the Chief Judge in applying the above Rules. 
They are also responsible for the correct placement of the upright as notified by the 
recorder according to the wishes of the athlete. 

c. Judge - a recorder noting the upright positions requested by the athletes, scoring the 
results sheet and calling the upright position and then each athlete (and the one who 
is to follow).  

d. Judge in charge of the scoreboard (trial-number-result). 

e. Judge in charge of the clock indicating to the athletes that they have a certain time to 
take their trial. 

f. Judge in charge of athletes. 

Note (i): This is the traditional setting-up of the officials. In major competitions, where a data 
system and electronic scoreboards are available, specialised personnel are certainly 
required. To be clear in these cases, the progress and scoring of a Field Event is followed by 
both the recorder and by the data system. 

Note (ii): Officials and equipment must be placed in such a way as not to obstruct the 
athlete’s way nor impede the view of the spectators. 

Note (iii): A space must be reserved for a wind-sock to indicate the wind direction and 
strength. 

 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  69 



Book C – C2.1 

Horizontal Jumps 

29. (Rule 184)   General Conditions – Horizontal Jumps 

Runway 

29.1 The minimum length of the runway, measured from the relevant take-off line shall be 
40m and, where conditions permit, 45m. It shall have a width of 1.22m ± 0.01m and 
shall be marked by white lines 50mm in width. 

Note: For all tracks constructed before 1 January 2004 the runway may have a width 
of maximum 1.25m. However when such a runway is fully resurfaced, the lane width 
shall comply with this Rule. 

29.2 The maximum lateral inclination of the runway should be 1:100 (1%) unless special 
circumstances exist which justify World Athletics providing an exemption and, in the 
last 40m of the runway, the overall downward inclination in the direction of running 
shall not exceed 1:1000 (0.1%). 

Take-off Board 

29.3 The take-off shall be marked by a board sunk level with the runway and the surface of 
the landing area. The edge of the board which is nearer to the landing area shall be 
the take-off line. Immediately beyond the take-off line there may be placed a 
plasticine indicator board for the assistance of the Judges. 

Note: Where in the construction of the runway and/or take-off board there was 
previously provision for the placement of a plasticine indicator board and such board 
is not used, this recess should be filled by a blanking board flush with the take-off 
board. 

29.4 The take-off board shall be rectangular, made of wood or other suitable rigid material 
in which the spikes of an athlete’s shoe will grip and not skid and shall measure 
1.22m ± 0.01m long, 0.20m ± 0.002m wide and not more than 0.10m deep. It shall be 
white. In order to ensure that the take-off line is clearly distinguishable and in contrast 
to the take-off board, the ground immediately beyond the take-off line shall be in a 
colour other than white. 

29.5 The use of video or other technology, to assist the Judges in deciding the application 
of Rule 30.1 of the Technical Rules, is strongly recommended at all levels of 
competition. However, if no technology is available, a plasticine indicator board may 
still be used.  

The plasticine indicator board shall consist of a rigid board, 0.10m ± 0.002m wide and 
1.22m ± 0.01m long made of wood or any other suitable material and shall be painted 
in a contrasting colour to the take-off board. Where possible, the plasticine should be 
of a third contrasting colour. The board shall be mounted in a recess or shelf in the 
runway, on the side of the take-off board nearer the landing area. The surface shall 
rise from the level of the take-off board to a height of 7mm ± 1mm. The edges shall 
be cut away such that in relation to the recess, when filled with plasticine, the surface 
of the plasticine nearer to the take-off line shall be at an angle of 90° (see Figure (a) 
TR29). 

 

70     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

 
 

Figure (a) TR29 (Rule 184) - Take-off board and plasticine indicator board 

[From 1 November 2020] 

 When mounted in this recess, the whole assembly shall be sufficiently rigid to accept 
the full force of the athlete's foot. 

 The surface of the board beneath the plasticine shall be of a material in which the 
spikes of an athlete's shoe will grip and not skid. 

 The plasticine can be smoothed off by means of a roller or suitably shaped scraper 
for the purposes of removing the footprint of an athlete. 

[Rules 29.3 to 29.5 amended in June 2019 and in force from 1 November 
2020. For current edition of Rule, please refer to Competition Rule 184.3.] 

Landing Area 

29.6 The landing area shall have a minimum width of 2.75m and a maximum width of 3m. 
It shall, if possible, be so placed that the middle of the runway, if extended, would 
coincide with the middle of the landing area. 

Note: When the axis of the runway is not in line with the centre line of the landing 
area, a tape, or if necessary, two tapes, shall be placed along the landing area so that 
the above is achieved (see Figure (b) TR29). 

 

 

 
Figure (b) TR29 (Rule 184) - Centralised Long Jump /Triple Jump landing area 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  71 



Book C – C2.1 

Where new facilities are developed at which it is envisaged that visually impaired athletes will 
compete, at least one pit should be built with an increased width (3.50m instead of maximum 
3.00m as in the Rules) as recommended by IPC. 

29.7 The landing area should be filled with soft damp sand, the top surface of which shall 
be level with the take-off board. 

Distance Measurement 

29.8 In all horizontal jumping events, distances shall be recorded to the nearest 0.01m 
below the distance measured if the distance measured is not a whole centimetre. 

29.9 The measurement of each jump shall be made immediately after each valid trial (or 
after an immediate oral protest made under Rule 8.5 of the Technical Rules) from the 
nearest break in the landing area made by any part of the body, or anything that was 
attached to the body at the time it made a mark, to the take-off line, or take-off line 
extended. The measurement shall be taken perpendicular to the take-off line or its 
extension. 

As long as no irregularity has been committed, each trial must be measured whatever the 
distance reached, including for the reasons that other trial measurements may become 
critical in determining countbacks or whether an athlete will proceed to subsequent rounds. 

Except where Rule 8.5 of the Technical Rules is applied, under normal practice no trial 
during which an irregularity has been committed should be measured. Judges should 
carefully use their discretion in applying any alternate practice and usually only in special 
cases. 

Unless video measuring is being used, for every valid trial a marker (usually metal) should be 
placed in a vertical position at the place of the imprint left by the athlete in the landing area 
nearest to the take-off line. The marker is passed through the loop at the end of the 
graduated metal tape so that the “zero” is on the mark. The tape should be pulled out 
horizontally taking care not to place it on any rise in the ground.  

Wind Measurement 

29.10 The wind gauge shall be the same as described in Rules 17.8 and 17.9 of the 
Technical Rules. It shall be operated as described in Rules 17.11 and 29.12 of the 
Technical Rules and read as per Rule 17.13 of the Technical Rules. 

29.11 The relevant Field Events Referee shall ensure that the wind gauge is placed 20m 
from the take-off line. The measuring plane shall be positioned 1.22m ± 0.05m high 
and not more than 2m away from the runway. 

29.12 The wind velocity shall be measured for a period of 5 seconds from the time an 
athlete passes a mark placed alongside the runway, for the Long Jump 40m from the 
take-off line and for the Triple Jump 35m. If an athlete runs less than 40m or 35m, as 
appropriate, the wind velocity shall be measured from the time they commence their 
run. 

30. (Rule 185)   Long Jump 

Competition 

30.1 An athlete fails if: 

72     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

30.1.1 they while taking off, break the vertical plane of the take-off line with any 
part of their foot / shoe, whether running up without jumping or in the act of 
jumping; or 

[Rule 30.1.1 amended in June 2019 and in force from 1 November 2020. 
For the current edition of rule please refer to Competition Rule 185.1.] 

30.1.2 they take off from outside either end of the board, whether beyond or 
before the extension of the take-off line; or 

30.1.3 they employ any form of somersaulting whilst running up or in the act of 
jumping; or 

30.1.4 after taking off, but before their first contact with the landing area, they 
touch the runway or the ground outside the runway or outside the landing 
area; or 

30.1.5 in the course of landing (including any overbalancing), they touch the 
border of, or the ground outside, the landing area closer to the take-off line 
than the nearest break made in the sand; or 

30.1.6 they leave the landing area in any manner other than that described in Rule 
30.2 of the Technical Rules. 

30.2 When leaving the landing area, an athlete’s first contact by foot with its border or the 
ground outside shall be further from the take-off line than the nearest break in the 
sand (which may be any mark made on overbalancing completely inside the landing 
area or when walking back, closer to the take-off line than the initial break on 
landing).  

  Note: This first contact is considered leaving. 

30.3 An athlete shall not be regarded to have failed if: 

30.3.1 they run outside the white lines marking the runway at any point; or 

30.3.2 except as described in Rule 30.1.2 of the Technical Rules, they take off 
before reaching the board; or  

30.3.3 under Rule 30.1.2 of the Technical Rules a part of their shoe / foot is 
touching the ground outside either end of the take-off board, before the 
take-off line; or 

30.3.4 if in the course of landing, they touch, with any part of their body, or 
anything attached to it at that moment, the border of, or the ground outside 
the landing area, unless such contact contravenes Rule 30.1.4 or 30.1.5 of 
the Technical Rules; or 

30.3.5 they walk back through the landing area after having left the landing area in 
the manner described in Rule 30.2 of the Technical Rules. 

Take-off Line 

30.4 The distance between the take-off line and the far end of the landing area shall be at 
least 10m and, where possible, 11m. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  73 



Book C – C2.1 

30.5 The take-off line shall be placed between 1m and 3m from the nearer end of the 
landing area. 

Team of Officials 

For a Long Jump or Triple Jump event, it is recommended to allocate the available officials 
as follows: 

a.  The Chief Judge will watch over the whole of the event. 

b.  Judge checking whether the take-off has been made correctly and measuring the 
trial. They must be provided with two flags - white to indicate if the trial is valid and 
red if it is a failure. When the jump has been measured, it is advised that the Judge 
stands in front of the take-off board, holding the red flag, while the landing area is 
levelled and, if relevant, the plasticine board is replaced. A cone may be used instead 
or in addition. (In some competitions this position is assumed by the Chief Judge of 
the event.) 

c.  Judge at the landing point determining the position of the nearest break in the landing 
area to the take-off line, to insert the spike/prism and then, if a tape is being used, 
hold the tape on the 0. When video measuring is being used, no judge will normally 
be required on site for this purpose. When an optic system of measuring is being 
used on site, two judges are needed at the landing point, one to plant the marker in 
the sand, the other one to read the result on the optic apparatus. 

d.  Judge - a recorder scoring the results sheet and calling each athlete (and the one 
who is to follow). 

e.  Judge in charge of the scoreboard (trial-number-result). 

f.  Judge in charge of the wind-gauge positioned at a point 20 metres from the take-off 
line. 

g.  One or more Judges or assistants in charge of levelling the landing area after each 
trial. 

h.  Judge or an assistant in charge of replacing the plasticine. 

i.  Judge in charge of the clock indicating to the athletes that they have a certain time to 
take their trial. 

j.  Judge in charge of athletes. 

Note (i): This is the traditional setting-up of the officials. In major competitions, where a 
data system and electronic scoreboards are available, specialised personnel are certainly 
required. To be clear in these cases, the progress and scoring of a Field Event is 
followed by both the recorder and by the data system. 

Note (ii): Officials and equipment must be placed in such a way as not to obstruct the 
athlete’s way nor impede the view of the spectators. 

Note (iii): A space must be reserved for a wind-sock to indicate the wind direction and 
strength. 

74     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

31. (Rule 186)   Triple Jump 

Rules 29 and 30 of the Technical Rules apply to Triple Jump with the following variations: 

Competition 

31.1 The Triple Jump shall consist of a hop, a step and a jump in that order. 

31.2 The hop shall be made so that an athlete lands first on the same foot as that from 
which they have taken off; in the step they shall land on the other foot, from which, 
subsequently, the jump is performed. 

 It shall not be considered a failure if an athlete, while jumping, touches the ground 
with the "sleeping" leg. 

 Note: Rule 30.1.4 of the Technical Rules does not apply to the normal landings from 
the hop and step phases. 

It should be noted that it is not a failure (for that reason alone) if the athlete: 

a. touches the white lines or the ground outside between the take-off line and the 
landing area; or 

b. lands in the pit in the step phase through no fault of their own (i.e. if the Judge 
incorrectly indicated the take-off board) - in which such case the Referee 
would normally offer the athlete a replacement trial.  

It is, however a failure if the landing of the jump is not within the landing area. 

Take-off Line 

31.3 The distance between the take-off line for men and the far end of the landing area 
shall be at least 21m. 

31.4 For International Competitions, there should be a separate take-off board for men and 
women. The take-off line shall not be less than 13m for men and 11m for women from 
the nearer end of the landing area. For any other competition, this distance shall be 
appropriate for the level of competition. 

31.5 Between the take-off board and the landing area there shall, for the step and jump 
phases, be a take-off area of 1.22m ± 0.01m wide providing firm and uniform footing. 

Note: For all tracks constructed before 1 January 2004, this take-off area may have a 
width of maximum 1.25m. However, when such a runway is fully resurfaced, the lane 
width shall comply with this Rule. 

 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  75 



Book C – C2.1 

Throwing Events 

32. (Rule 187)   General Conditions – Throwing Events 

Official Implements 

32.1 In all International Competitions, the implements used shall comply with current World 
Athletics specifications. Only World Athletics certified implements may be used. The 
following table shows the implement to be used by each age group: 

Implement  Women Women  Men  Men  Men 
     U18  U20/Senior  U18  U20  Senior 

Shot   3.000kg 4.000kg  5.000kg 6.000kg 7.260kg 

Discus   1.000kg 1.000kg  1.500kg 1.750kg 2.000kg 

Hammer  3.000kg 4.000kg  5.000kg 6.000kg 7.260kg 

Javelin   500g  600g   700g  800g  800g 

Note: The current standard forms required to be used for the certification and renewal 
application as well as the Certification System Procedures are available from the 
World Athletics Office, or may be downloaded from the World Athletics website. 

32.2 Except as provided below, all such implements shall be provided by the Organisers. 
The Technical Delegate(s) may, based on the applicable regulations of each 
competition, allow athletes to use their own personal implements or those provided by 
a supplier, provided that such implements are World Athletics certified, checked and 
marked as approved by the Organisers before the competition and made available to 
all athletes. Such implements will not be accepted if the same model is already on the 
list of those provided by the Organisers. Unless the Technical Delegate decides 
otherwise, not more than two implements may be submitted by any athlete for any 
throwing event in which they are competing. 

Note: “World Athletics certified” implements may include older models that previously 
held a certificate but are not in production any longer. 

It is becoming increasingly common for Organisers to provide a lesser range of implements 
than in the past (largely due to the cost of purchases). This increases the responsibility of 
Technical Managers and their assistants to closely check all personal implements presented 
for competitions - to ensure that they comply with the Rules as well as being on the World 
Athletics list of certified products. Implements which do not currently have but have 
previously had a World Athletics certificate may be accepted for competition if they comply 
with the Rules. 

32.3 No modification shall be made to any implements during the competition.  

Assistance 

32.4 The following shall be considered assistance and are therefore not allowed:  

32.4.1 The taping of two or more fingers together. If taping is used on the hands 
and fingers, it may be continuous provided that as a result no two or more 
fingers are taped together in such a way that the fingers cannot move 

76     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

individually. The taping should be shown to the Chief Judge before the 
event starts. 

32.4.2 The use of any device of any kind, including weights attached to the body, 
which in any way provides assistance when making a trial. 

32.4.3 The use of gloves except in the Hammer Throw. In this case, the gloves 
shall be smooth on the back and on the front and the tips of the glove 
fingers, other than the thumb, shall be open. 

32.4.4 The spraying or spreading by an athlete of any substance in the circle or on 
their shoes nor the roughening of the surface of the circle. 

Note: If the Judges are aware, they shall direct any athlete not complying with this 
rule to correct the situation. If the athlete does not, such trial(s) shall be a failure. If a 
trial is completed before the non-compliance is noticed, the Referee shall decide what 
action shall be taken. In all cases considered serious enough, Rule 18.5 of the 
Competition Rules and Rule 7.2 of the Technical Rules may also be applied. 

32.5 The following shall not be considered assistance and are therefore allowed:  

32.5.1 The use by an athlete, in order to obtain a better grip, of a suitable 
substance on their hands only or in the case of a hammer thrower on their 
gloves. A shot putter may use such substances on their neck. 

32.5.2 The placement by an athlete, in the Shot Put and Discus Throw, on the 
implement, chalk or a similar substance.  

All substances used on the hands, gloves and on the implements shall be 
easily removable from the implement using a wet cloth and shall not leave 
any residue. If this is not followed, the note to Rule 32.4 of the Technical 
Rules shall be applied. 

32.5.3 The use of taping on the hands and fingers that is not in contravention of 
Rule 32.4.1 of the Technical Rules. 

Throwing Circle 

32.6 The rim of the circle shall be made of band iron, steel or other suitable material, the 
top of which shall be flush with the ground outside. It shall be at least 6mm thick and 
shall be white. The ground surrounding the circle may be concrete, synthetic, asphalt, 
wood or any other suitable material. 

The interior of the circle may be constructed of concrete, asphalt or some other firm 
but not slippery material. The surface of this interior generally shall be level and 
20mm ± 6mm lower than the upper edge of the rim of the circle. 

  In the Shot Put, a portable circle meeting these specifications is permissible. 

32.7 The inside diameter of the circle shall be 2.135m ± 0.005m in the Shot Put and the 
Hammer Throw and 2.50m ± 0.005m in the Discus Throw. 

The hammer may be thrown from the discus circle provided the diameter of this circle 
is reduced from 2.50m to 2.135m by placing a circular ring inside. 

Note: The circular ring should preferably be coloured other than white so that the 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  77 



Book C – C2.1 

white lines required by Rule 32.8 of the Technical Rules be clearly visible. 

 

Figure (a) TR32 (Rule 187) - Layout of Shot Put circle 

32.8 A white line 50mm wide shall be drawn from the top of the rim extending for at least 
0.75m on either side of the circle. The white line may be painted or made of wood or 
other suitable material. The rear edge of the white line shall form a prolongation of a 
theoretical line through the centre of the circle at right angles to the centre line of the 
landing sector. 

 

 

Figure (b) TR32 (Rule 187) - Layout of Discus Throw circle 

 

78     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

 

Figure (c) TR32 (Rule 187) - Layout of Hammer Throw circle 

 

 

Figure (d) TR32 (Rule 187) - Layout of concentric circles for Discus and Hammer 
Throw circle 

Javelin Throw Runway 

32.9 The minimum length of the runway shall be 30m except in competitions held under 
paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.5 and 1.6 of the International Competition definition, where 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  79 



Book C – C2.1 

the minimum shall be 33.50m. Where conditions permit, the minimum length should 
be 36.50m. 

It shall be marked by two parallel white lines 50mm wide and 4m apart. The throw 
shall be made from behind an arc of a circle drawn with a radius of 8m. The arc shall 
consist of an at least 70mm wide strip painted or made of wood or a suitable non-
corrodible material like plastic. It shall be white and be flush with the ground. Lines 
shall be drawn from the extremities of the arc at right angles to the parallel lines 
marking the runway. These lines shall be white, at least 0.75m long and at least 
70mm wide. The maximum lateral inclination of the runway should be 1:100 (1%) 
unless special circumstances exist which justify World Athletics providing an 
exemption and, in the last 20m of the runway, the overall downward inclination in the 
direction of running shall not exceed 1:1000 (0.1%). 

 

 

Figure (e) TR32 (Rule 187) - Javelin Throw runway and landing sector (not to scale) 

80     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

Landing Sector 

32.10 The landing sector shall consist of cinders or grass or other suitable material on 
which the implement makes an imprint. 

32.11 The maximum overall downward inclination of the landing sector, in the throwing 
direction, shall not exceed 1:1000 (0.1%). 

32.12 Landing Sector markings: 

32.12.1 Except for the Javelin Throw, the landing sector shall be marked with white 
lines 50mm wide at an angle of 34.92° such that the inner edge of lines, if 
extended, would pass through the centre of the circle. 

Note: The 34.92° sector may be laid out accurately by making the distance 
between the two points on the sector lines 20m from the centre of the circle 
12m ± 0.05m (20m × 0.60m) apart. Thus, for every 1m from the centre of 
the circle, the distance across shall be increased by 0.60m. 

32.12.2 In the Javelin Throw, the landing sector shall be marked with white lines 
50mm wide such that the inner edge of the lines, if extended, would pass 
through the two intersections of the inner edges of the arc, and the parallel 
lines marking the runway and intersect at the centre of the circle of which 
the arc is part (see Figure (e) TR32). The sector angle is thus 28.96°. 

The landing sector shall be of an even surface soft enough to ensure that the place of the 
initial fall of the implement can be clearly established by the Judges. The landing surface 
should not allow the implement bounce backwards thus creating a risk that the measuring 
point is obliterated. 

Trials 

32.13 In the Shot Put, Discus Throw and Hammer Throw, implements shall be thrown from 
a circle, and in the Javelin Throw, from a runway. In the case of trials made from a 
circle, an athlete shall commence their trial from a stationary position inside the circle. 
An athlete is allowed to touch the inside of the rim. In the Shot Put, they are also 
allowed to touch the inside of the stop board described in Rule 33.2 of the Technical 
Rules. 

There is no restriction on how, or from which direction, an athlete may enter the circle. The 
relevant requirement is that once inside they must adopt a stationary position before 
commencing their trial. 

32.14 It shall be a failure if an athlete in the course of a trial: 

32.14.1 releases the shot or the javelin other than as permitted under Rules 33.1 
and 38.1 of the Technical Rules; 

32.14.2 after they have stepped into the circle and begun to make a throw, touches 
with any part of their body the top (or the top inside edge) of the rim or the 
ground outside the circle;  

Note: However, it will not be considered a failure if the touch is made 
without providing any propulsion and occurs during any first rotation at a 
point completely behind the white line which is drawn outside the circle 
running, theoretically, through the centre of the circle. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  81 



Book C – C2.1 

32.14.3 in the Shot Put, touches with any part of their body any part of the stop 
board other than its inner side (excluding its top edge which is considered 
to be part of the top); 

32.14.4 in the Javelin Throw, touches with any part of their body the lines which 
mark the runway or the ground outside. 

Note: It will not be considered a failure if the discus or any part of the hammer strikes 
the cage after release, then lands within the landing sector outside the cage, provided 
that no other Rule is infringed. 

It is clarified that the top inside edges of the rim of the circle and of the stop board are 
considered to be part of the top of the rim and stop board respectively. This means that 
should an athlete make contact with the top inside edge of either the rim or the stop-board 
then they will be considered thereby to have made a failure.  

The addition of the Note to Rule 32.14.2 of the Technical Rules applies to rotational 
techniques used by athletes in Shot Put, Discus Throw or Hammer Throw. It should be 
interpreted that any “incidental” touch of the top of the rim or the ground outside in respect of 
the back half of the circle during the first rotation should not, of itself, be regarded as a 
failure. However it is clear that any technique which thereby obtains an advantage through 
leverage or propulsion would constitute a failure. 

32.15 Provided that, in the course of a trial, the Rules relative to each throwing event have 
not been infringed, an athlete may interrupt a trial once started, may lay the 
implement down inside or outside the circle or runway and may leave the circle or 
runway. 

Note: All the moves permitted by this paragraph shall be included in the maximum 
time for a trial given in Rule 25.17 of the Technical Rules. 

In these circumstances, there is no restriction on how, or from which direction, an athlete 
may leave the circle or runway if they choose to do. The relevant requirement is that no other 
Rule is or has already been infringed. 

32.16 It shall be a failure if the shot, the discus, the hammer head or the head of the javelin 
in contacting the ground when it first lands touches the sector line or the ground or 
any object (other than the cage as provided in the Note to Rule 32.14 of the Technical 
Rules) outside the sector line. 

It should be noted that for the purposes of this Rule, the position of the hammer wire or 
handle is not relevant. For example, the wire could land or be laying on or outside the sector 
line and it would not matter, provided that the head had landed correctly. The same applies 
in respective of determining the point from which the measurement is taken under Rule 
32.20.1 of the Technical Rules. 

32.17 It shall be a failure if the athlete leaves the circle or runway before the implement has 
touched the ground, or 

32.17.1 for throws made from a circle, if when leaving the circle, the athlete’s first 
contact with the top of the rim or the ground outside the circle is not 
completely behind the white line which is drawn outside the circle running, 
theoretically, through the centre of the circle; 

Note: The first contact with the top of the rim or the ground outside the 

82     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

circle is considered leaving. 

32.17.2 in the case of the Javelin Throw, if, when leaving the runway, the athlete’s 
first contact with the parallel lines or the ground outside the runway is not 
completely behind the white line of the arc or the lines drawn from the 
extremities of the arc at right angles to the parallel lines. Once the 
implement has touched the ground, an athlete will also be considered to 
have left the runway correctly, upon making contact with or behind a line 
(painted, or theoretical and indicated by markers beside the runway) drawn 
across the runway, four metres back from the end points of the throwing 
arc. Should an athlete be behind that line and inside the runway at the 
moment the implement touches the ground, they shall be considered to 
have left the runway correctly. 

The second and third sentences in Rule 32.17.2 of the Technical Rules are designed to 
speed up the judging process and not to create an additional method of calling a failure on 
the athlete. The purpose of the “4m marks” is solely to enable the Judges to raise the white 
flag and begin measuring the trial once the athlete retreats behind this point (in the same 
way as they would do if they had otherwise correctly left the runway). The only requirement is 
that there is no other reason for calling a failure and that the implement has touched the 
ground before the white flag is raised. Necessarily, if the athlete for whatever reason never 
progresses past the “4m marks” when making their throw then the flag can be raised once 
the implement has landed. 

32.18 After each throw, implements shall be carried back to the area next to the circle or 
runway and never thrown back. 

Distance Measurement 

32.19 In all throwing events, distances shall be recorded to the nearest 0.01m below the 
distance measured if the distance measured is not a whole centimetre. 

32.20 The measurement of each throw shall be made immediately after each valid trial (or 
after an immediate oral protest made under Rule 8.5 of the Technical Rules) from the 
nearest mark made in contacting the ground when it first lands by: 

32.20.1 the shot, discus and hammer head, to the inside of the circumference of the 
circle along a line to the centre of the circle; or 

32.20.2 the head of the javelin to the inside edge of the arc, along a line to the 
centre of the circle of which the arc is part. 

As long as no irregularity has been committed, each trial must be measured whatever the 
distance reached, including for the reasons that other trial measurements may become 
critical in determining countbacks or whether an athlete will proceed to subsequent rounds. 

Except where Rule 8.5 of the Technical Rules is applied, under normal practice no trial 
during which an irregularity has been committed should be measured. Judges should 
carefully use their discretion in applying any alternate practice and usually only in special 
cases. 

Unless video measuring is being used, for every valid trial a marker (usually metal) should be 
placed in a vertical position at the place of the imprint left by the implement in the landing 
area nearest to the arc. The marker is passed through the loop at the end of the graduated 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  83 



Book C – C2.1 

metal tape so that the “zero” is on the mark. The tape should be pulled out horizontally taking 
care not to place it on any rise in the ground. 

33. (Rule 188)   Shot Put 

Competition 

33.1 The shot shall be put from the shoulder with one hand only. At the time an athlete 
takes a stance in the circle to commence a put, the shot shall touch or be in close 
proximity to the neck or the chin and the hand shall not be dropped below this 
position during the action of putting. The shot shall not be taken behind the line of the 
shoulders.  

   Note: Cartwheeling techniques are not permitted. 

Stop Board 

33.2 The stop board shall be white and made of wood or other suitable material in the 
shape of an arc so that the inner surface aligns with the inner edge of the rim of the 
circle and is perpendicular to the surface of the circle. It shall be placed so that its 
centre coincides with the centre line of the landing sector (see Figure TR33), and 
shall be firmly fixed to the ground or to the concrete surrounding the circle. 

 

 

Figure TR33 (Rule 188) - Shot Put stop board (top and side view) 

Note: Stop boards to the 1983/84 World Athletics specifications remain acceptable. 

33.3 The stop board shall measure 0.112m to 0.30m wide, with a chord of 1.21m ± 0.01m 
for an arc of the same radius as the circle and 0.10m ± 0.008m high in relation to the 
level of the inside of the circle adjacent to the stop board. 

84     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

Shot 

33.4 The shot shall be of solid iron, brass or any metal not softer than brass, or a shell of 
such metal filled with lead or other solid material. It shall be spherical in shape and its 
surface finish shall be smooth. 

Information for manufacturers: to be smooth, the surface average height must be less 
than 1.6µm, i.e. a roughness number N7 or less. 

33.5 The shot shall conform to the following specifications: 

Minimum weight for admission to competition and acceptance of a Record: 

     3.000kg 4.000kg 5.000kg 6.000kg 7.260kg 

Diameter: 

Minimum  85mm  95mm  100mm 105mm 110mm 

Maximum  110mm 110mm 120mm 125mm 130mm 

Team of Officials 

For a Shot Put event, it is recommended to allocate the available officials as follows: 

a.  The Chief Judge will watch over the whole of the event. 

b.  Two Judges checking whether the put has been made correctly and measuring the 
trial. One must be provided with two flags - white to indicate if the trial is valid and 
red if it is a failure. When the put has been measured, it is advised that the Judge 
stands in the circle holding the red flag, while the implement is returned and the 
landing area is cleared. A cone may be placed in the circle instead. (In some 
competitions this position is assumed by the Chief Judge of the event.) 

 Where EDM is not in use, the second Judge should pull through and hold the 
measuring tape in such a way that it passes through the centre of the circle.  

c.  Judge immediately after the throw placing a marker indicating the point from which 
the trial is to be measured. 

d.  Judge positioning the spike/prism at the point where the marker has been placed 
ensuring the tape is on the zero mark. 

e.  Judge in charge of retrieving the implements and returning them to the implement 
stand or placing them in the return chute. 

f.  Judge - a recorder scoring the results sheet and calling each athlete (and the one 
who is to follow). 

g.  Judge in charge of the scoreboard (trial-number-result). 

h.  Judge in charge of the clock indicating to the athletes that they have a certain time 
to take their trial. 

i.  Judge in charge of athletes. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  85 



Book C – C2.1 

j.  Judge in charge of the implement stand. 

Note (i): This is the traditional setting-up of the officials. In major competitions, where a 
data system and electronic scoreboards are available, specialised personnel are certainly 
required. To be clear in these cases, the progress and scoring of a Field Event is 
followed by both the recorder and by the data system. 

Note (ii): Officials and equipment must be placed in such a way as not to obstruct the 
athlete’s way nor impede the view of the spectators. 

34. (Rule 189)   Discus Throw 

Discus 

34.1 The body of the discus may be solid or hollow and shall be made of wood, or other 
suitable material, with a metal rim, the edge of which shall be circular. The cross 
section of the edge shall be rounded in a true circle having a radius of approximately 
6mm. There may be circular plates set flush into the centre of the sides. Alternatively, 
the discus may be made without metal plates, provided that the equivalent area is flat 
and the measurements and total weight of the implement correspond to the 
specifications. 

Each side of the discus shall be identical and shall be made without indentations, 
projections or sharp edges. The sides shall taper in a straight line from the beginning 
of the curve of the rim to a circle of a radius of 25mm to 28.5mm from the centre of 
the discus. 

The profile of the discus shall be designed as follows. From the beginning of the 
curve of the rim the thickness of the discus increases regularly up to the maximum 
thickness D. This maximum value is achieved at a distance of 25 mm to 28.5mm from 
the axis of the discus Y. From this point up to the axis Y the thickness of the discus is 
constant. Upper and lower side of the discus must be identical; also the discus has to 
be symmetrical concerning rotation around the axis Y. 

The discus, including the surface of the rim shall have no roughness and the finish 
shall be smooth (see Rule 33.4 of the Technical Rules) and uniform throughout. 

 

 

Figure TR34 (Rule189) – Discus 

86     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

34.2 The discus shall conform to the following specifications: 

Minimum weight for admission to competition and acceptance of a Record 

     1.000kg 1.500kg 1.750kg 2.000kg 

Outside diameter of metal rim: 

Minimum  180mm 200mm 210mm 219mm 

Maximum  182mm 202mm 212mm 221mm 

Diameter of metal plate or flat centre area: 

Minimum  50mm  50mm  50mm  50mm 

Maximum  57mm  57mm  57mm  57mm 

Thickness of metal plate or flat centre area: 

Minimum  37mm  38mm  41mm  44mm 

Maximum  39mm  40mm  43mm  46mm 

Thickness of metal rim (6mm from edge): 

Minimum  12mm  12mm  12mm  12mm 

Maximum  13mm  13mm  13mm  13mm 

Team of Officials 

For a Discus Throw event, it is recommended to allocate the available officials as follows: 

a. The Chief Judge will watch over the whole of the event. 

b.  Two Judges checking whether the throw has been made correctly and measuring the 
trial. One must be provided with two flags - white to indicate if the trial is valid and red 
if it is a failure. When the throw has been measured, it is advised that the Judge 
stands at the entrance to the cage holding the red flag, while the implement is 
returned and the landing area is cleared. A cone may be placed at this point instead. 
(In some competitions this position is assumed by the Chief Judge of the event.) 

 Where EDM is not in use the second Judge should pull through and hold the 
measuring tape in such a way that it passes through the centre of the circle.  

c.  Judge immediately after the throw placing a marker indicating the point from which 
the trial is to be measured. If the implement lands outside the sector either this Judge 
or the one with the spike/prism (whichever is closer to the line) should indicate this by 
holding their arm outstretched. No indication is required for a valid trial. 

d.  Judge positioning the spike/prism at the point where the marker has been placed 
ensuring the tape is on the zero mark. 

e.  one or more Judges or assistants in charge of retrieving the implements and returning 
them to the implement stand or placing them in the return device. Where a tape is 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  87 



Book C – C2.1 

used for measurement, one of these Judges or assistants should ensure that the tape 
measure is taut in order to ensure a correct measurement. 

f.  Judge - a recorder scoring the results sheet and calling each athlete (and the one 
who is to follow). 

g.  Judge in charge of the scoreboard (trial-number-result). 

h.  Judge in charge of the clock indicating to the athletes that they have a certain time to 
take their trial. 

i. Judge in charge of athletes. 

j. Judge in charge of the implement stand. 

Note (i): This is the traditional setting-up of the officials. In major competitions, where a 
data system and electronic scoreboards are available, specialised personnel are certainly 
required. To be clear in these cases, the progress and scoring of a Field Event is 
followed by both the recorder and by the data system. 

Note (ii): Officials and equipment must be placed in such a way as not to obstruct the 
athlete’s way nor impede the view of the spectators. 

Note (iii): A space must be reserved for a wind-sock to indicate the wind direction and 
strength. 

35. (Rule 190)   Discus Cage 

35.1 All discus throws shall be made from an enclosure or cage to ensure the safety of 
spectators, officials and athletes. The cage specified in this Rule is intended for use 
when the event takes place in the Field of Play with other events taking place at the 
same time or when the event takes place outside the Field of Play with spectators 
present. Where this does not apply, and especially in training areas, a much simpler 
construction may be satisfactory. Advice is available, on request, from Members or 
from the World Athletics Office. 

Note (i): The hammer cage specified in Rule 37 of the Technical Rules may also be 
used for Discus Throw, either by installing 2.135/2.50m concentric circles, or by using 
the extension of the gates of that cage with a separate discus circle installed in front 
of the hammer circle. 

Note (ii): The hammer cage movable panels may be used when the cage is being 
used for discus throw to limit the danger zones. 

35.2 The cage should be designed, manufactured and maintained so as to be capable of 
stopping a 2kg discus moving at a speed of up to 25 metres per second. The 
arrangement should be such that there is no danger of ricocheting or rebounding 
back towards the athlete or over the top of the cage. Provided that it satisfies all the 
requirements of this Rule, any form of cage design and construction can be used. 

35.3 The cage should be U-shaped in plan as shown in Figure TR35. The width of the 
mouth should be 6m, positioned 7m in front of the centre of the throwing circle. The 
end points of the 6m wide mouth shall be the inner edge of the cage netting. The 
height of the netting panels or draped netting at their lowest point should be at least 
4m and it should be at least 6m for the 3m nearest the front of the cage on each side 
[from 1 January 2020]. 

88     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

Provision should be made in the design and construction of the cage to prevent a 
discus forcing its way through any joints in the cage or the netting or underneath the 
netting panels or draped netting. 

Note (i): The arrangement of the rear panels/netting is not important provided the 
netting is a minimum of 3.00m away from the centre of the circle. 

Note (ii): Innovative designs that provide the same or better degree of protection and 
do not increase the danger zone compared with conventional designs may be World 
Athletics certified. 

Note (iii): The cage side, particularly alongside the track, may be lengthened and/or 
provided with (a) movable panel(s) and/or increased in height so as to provide 
greater protection to athletes competing on the adjoining track during a discus 
competition. 

The netting must be fixed in a way that the width of the mouth is the same at each height of 
the netting. This applies also for the panels when put into a position according to Rule 37.4 of 
the Technical Rules Note (ii). 

35.4 The netting for the cage can be made from suitable natural or synthetic fibre cord or, 
alternatively, from mild or high tensile steel wire. The maximum mesh size shall be 
45mm for cord netting and 50mm for steel wire. 

Note: Further specifications for the netting and safety inspection procedures are set 
out in the World Athletics Track and Field Facilities Manual. 

35.5 The maximum danger sector for discus throws from this cage is approximately 69°, 
when used by both right and left handed throwers in the same competition (calculated 
by assuming that the discus is released from a circumscribed circle of 1.5m radius). 
The position and alignment of the cage in the Field of Play is, therefore, critical for its 
safe use.  

Note: The method used to determine the danger zone is illustrated in Figure TR35. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  89 



Book C – C2.1 

 

Figure TR35 (Rule 190) - Cage for Discus Throw only (with cage dimensions to netting)  

36. (Rule 191)   Hammer Throw 

Competition 

36.1 An athlete, in their starting position prior to the preliminary swings or turns, is allowed 
to put the head of the hammer on the ground inside or outside the circle. 

90     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

36.2 It shall not be considered a failure if the head of the hammer touches the ground 
inside or outside the circle, or the top of the rim. The athlete may stop and begin the 
throw again, provided no other Rule has been breached. 

36.3 If the hammer breaks during a throw or while in the air, it shall not count as a failure, 
provided the trial was otherwise made in accordance with this Rule. Nor shall it count 
as a failure if an athlete thereby loses their balance and as a result contravenes any 
part of this Rule. In both cases the athlete shall be awarded a replacement trial. 

Hammer 

36.4 The hammer shall consist of three main parts: a metal head, a wire and a handle. 

36.5 The head shall be of solid iron, brass or other metal not softer than brass or a shell of 
such metal filled with lead or other solid material. 

The centre of gravity of the head shall be not more than 6mm from the centre of the 
sphere, i.e. - it must be possible to balance the head, less handle and wire, on a 
horizontal sharp-edged circular orifice 12mm in diameter (see Figure (a) TR36). If a 
filling is used, this shall be inserted in such manner that it is immovable and complies 
with the requirement for the centre of gravity. 

 

 

Figure (a) TR36 (Rule 191) - Suggested apparatus for testing 
centre of gravity of hammer head 

36.6 The wire shall be a single unbroken and straight length of spring steel wire not less 
than 3mm in diameter and shall be such that it cannot stretch appreciably while the 
hammer is being thrown. 

 The wire may be looped at one or both ends as a means of attachment. The wire 
shall be connected to the head by means of a swivel, which may be either plain or 
ball bearing.  

36.7 The handle shall be rigid and without hinging joints of any kind. The total deformation 
of the handle under a tension load of 3.8kN shall not exceed 3mm. It shall be 
attached to the wire in such a manner that it cannot be turned within the loop of the 
wire to increase the overall length of the hammer. The handle shall be connected to 
the wire by means of a loop. A swivel may not be used. 

The handle shall have a symmetric design and may have a curved or straight grip 
and/or brace. The minimum handle breaking strength shall be 8kN. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  91 



Book C – C2.1 

 

Figure (b) TR36 (Rule 191) - Generic hammer handle 

  Note: Other designs complying with the specifications are acceptable. 

36.8 The hammer shall conform to the following specifications: 

Minimum weight for admission to competition and acceptance of a Record: 

    3.000kg  4.000kg  5.000kg  6.000kg 7.260kg 

Length of hammer measured from inside of handle: 

Maximum  1195mm  1195mm  1200mm  1215mm 1215mm 

Diameter of head: 

Minimum  85mm   95mm   100mm  105mm 110mm 

Maximum  100mm  110mm  120mm  125mm 130mm 

Note: The weight of the implement includes the totality of the hammer head, wire and handle. 

Team of Officials 

For a Hammer Throw event, it is recommended to allocate the available officials as follows: 

a. The Chief Judge will watch over the whole of the event. 

b. Two Judges checking whether the throw has been made correctly and measuring the 
trial. One must be provided with two flags - white to indicate if the trial is valid and red 

92     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

if it is a failure. When the throw has been measured, it is advised that the Judge 
stands at the entrance to the cage holding the red flag, while the implement is 
returned and the landing area is cleared. A cone may be placed at this point instead. 
(In some competitions this position is assumed by the Chief Judge of the event.) 

 Where EDM is not in use the second Judge should pull through and hold the 
measuring tape in such a way that it passes through the centre of the circle.  

c. Judge immediately after the throw placing a marker indicating the point from which 
the trial is to be measured. If the implement lands outside the sector either this Judge 
or the one with the spike/prism (whichever is closer to the line) should indicate this by 
holding their arm outstretched. No indication is required for a valid trial. 

d. Judge positioning the spike/prism at the point where the marker has been placed 
ensuring the tape is on the zero mark. 

e. one or more Judges or assistants in charge of retrieving the implements and returning 
them to the implement stand or placing them in the return device. Where a tape is 
used for measurement, one of these Judges or assistants should ensure that the tape 
measure is taut in order to ensure a correct measurement. 

f. Judge - a recorder scoring the results sheet and calling each athlete (and the one 
who is to follow). 

g. Judge in charge of the scoreboard (trial-number-result). 

h. Judge in charge of the clock indicating to the athletes that they have a certain time to 
take their trial. 

i.  Judge in charge of athletes. 

j. Judge in charge of the implement stand. 

Note (i): This is the traditional setting-up of the officials. In major competitions, where a 
data system and electronic scoreboards are available, specialised personnel are certainly 
required. To be clear in these cases, the progress and scoring of a Field Event is 
followed by both the recorder and by the data system. 

Note (ii): Officials and equipment must be placed in such a way as not to obstruct the 
athlete’s way nor impede the view of the spectators. 

37. (Rule 192)   Hammer Cage 

37.1 All hammer throws shall be made from an enclosure or cage to ensure the safety of 
spectators, officials and athletes. The cage specified in this Rule is intended for use 
when the event takes place in the Field of Play with other events taking place at the 
same time or when the event takes place outside the Field of Play with spectators 
present. Where this does not apply, and especially in training areas, a much simpler 
construction may be satisfactory. Advice is available on request from Members or 
from the World Athletics Office. 

37.2 The cage should be designed, manufactured and maintained so as to be capable of 
stopping a 7.260kg hammer head moving at a speed of up to 32 metres per second. 
The arrangement should be such that there is no danger of ricocheting or rebounding 
back towards the athlete or over the top of the cage. Provided that it satisfies all the 
requirements of this Rule, any form of cage design and construction can be used. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  93 



Book C – C2.1 

37.3 The cage should be U-shaped in plan as shown in Figure (a) TR37. The width of the 
mouth should be 6m, positioned 7m in front of the centre of the throwing circle. The 
end points of the 6m wide mouth shall be the inner edge of the pivoted netting. The 
height of the netting panels or draped netting at their lowest point shall be at least 7m 
for the panels/netting at the rear of the cage and at least 10m for the last 2.80m 
panels to the gate netting pivot points. 

 Provisions should be made in the design and construction of the cage to prevent a 
hammer forcing its way through any joints in the cage or the netting or underneath the 
netting panels or draped netting. 

Note: The arrangement of the rear panels / netting is not important provided the 
netting is a minimum of 3.50m away from the centre of the circle. 

37.4 Two movable netting panels 2m wide shall be provided at the front of the cage, only 
one of which will be operative at a time. The minimum height of the panels shall be 
10m. 

Note (i): The left hand panel is used for throwers turning anti clockwise, and the right 
hand panel for throwers turning clockwise. In view of the possible need to change 
over from one panel to the other during the competition, when both left and right-
handed throwers are present, it is essential that this changeover should require little 
labour and be carried out in the minimum of time. 

Note (ii): The end position of both panels is shown in the plan even though only one 
panel will be closed at any one time during competition. 

Note (iii): When in operation, the movable panel shall be exactly in the position 
shown. Provision shall therefore, be made in the design of the movable panels to lock 
them in the operative position. It is recommended to mark (either temporarily or 
permanently) the operative positions of the panels on the ground. 

Note (iv): The construction of these panels and their operation depends on the overall 
design of the cage and can be sliding, hinging on a vertical or horizontal axis or 
dismounting. The only firm requirements are that the panel in operation shall be fully 
able to stop any hammer striking it and there shall be no danger of a hammer being 
able to force its way between the fixed and movable panels. 

Note (v): Innovative designs that provide the same degree of protection and do not 
increase the danger zone compared with conventional designs may be World 
Athletics certified. 

 

94     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

 

Figure (a) TR37 (Rule 192) - Cage for Hammer and Discus Throw 
with concentric circles 

(Hammer Throw configuration, with cage dimensions to netting) 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  95 



Book C – C2.1 

37.5 The netting for the cage can be made from suitable natural or synthetic fibre cord or, 
alternatively, from mild or high tensile steel wire. The maximum mesh size shall be 
45mm for cord netting and 50mm for steel wire.  

 Note: Further specifications for the netting and safety inspection procedures are set 
out in the World Athletics Track and Field Facilities Manual. 

37.6 Where it is desired to use the same cage for Discus Throw, the installation can be 
adapted in two alternative ways. Most simply, a 2.135m/2.50m concentric circle may 
be fitted, but this involves using the same surface in the circle for Hammer Throw and 
Discus Throw. The hammer cage shall be used for Discus Throw by fixing the 
movable netting panels clear of the cage opening. 

 For separate circles for Hammer Throw and Discus Throw in the same cage, the two 
circles shall be placed one behind the other with the centres 2.37m apart on the 
centre line of the landing sector and with the discus circle at the front. In that case, 
the movable netting panels shall be used for Discus Throw in order to lengthen the 
cage sides. 

Note: The arrangement of the rear panels/draped netting is not important provided 
the netting is a minimum of 3.50m away from the centre of concentric circles or the 
hammer circle in case of separate circles (or 3.00m for cages with separate circles 
built under the Rule in force before 2004 with the discus circle at the back) (see also 
Rule 37.4 of the Technical Rules). 

96     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

 
Figure (b) TR37 (Rule 192) - Cage for Hammer and Discus Throw 

with concentric circles  (Discus Throw configuration, with cage dimensions to netting) 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  97 



Book C – C2.1 

 
Figure (c) TR37 (Rule 192) - Cage for Hammer and Discus Throw 

with separate circles 
(With cage dimensions to netting) 

 

98     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

37.7 The maximum danger sector for hammer throws from this cage is approximately 53°, 
when used by both right and left-handed throwers in the same competition (calculated 
by assuming that the hammer is released from a circumscribed circle of 2.407m 
radius). The position and alignment of the cage in the Field of Play is, therefore, 
critical for its safe use. 

Note: The method used to determine the danger zone is illustrated in Figure (a) 
TR37. 

38. (Rule 193)   Javelin Throw 

Competition 

38.1 The javelin shall be held at the grip with one hand only. It shall be thrown over the 
shoulder or upper part of the throwing arm and shall not be slung or hurled. Non-
orthodox styles are not permitted. 

38.2 A throw shall be valid only if the metal head strikes the ground before any other part 
of the javelin. 

38.3 Until the javelin has been thrown, an athlete shall not at any time turn completely 
around, so that their back is towards the throwing arc. 

Previous references in the Rules to the “tip” of the javelin have been removed and are 
replaced by a generic reference to the head. This acknowledges that the shape of the head 
varies greatly, making it harder to separately define the tip. It means that Judges in 
determining whether the javelin has landed correctly in terms of Rule 32.16 of the Technical 
Rules and this Rule 38.2 and the reference point for measurement in terms of Rule 32.20.2 
of the Technical Rules now have a bigger area with which to assess. But the principles 
remain as before and there must be some angle on landing, however small, for the throw to 
be valid. Flat or “tail-first” landings are still to be red flagged.  

38.4 If the javelin breaks during a throw or while in the air, it shall not count as a failure, 
provided the trial was otherwise made in accordance with this Rule. Nor shall it count 
as a failure if an athlete thereby loses their balance and as a result contravenes any 
part of this Rule. In both cases the athlete shall be awarded a replacement trial. 

Javelin 

38.5 The javelin shall consist of three main parts: a shaft, a head and a cord grip.  

38.6 The shaft may be solid or hollow and shall be constructed of metal or other suitable 
material so as to constitute a fixed and integrated whole. The surface of the shaft 
shall have no dimples or pimples, grooves or ridges, holes or roughness, and the 
finish shall be smooth (see Rule 33.4 of the Technical Rules) and uniform throughout.  

38.7 The shaft shall have fixed to it a metal head terminating in a sharp point. The head 
shall be constructed completely of metal. It may contain a reinforced tip of other metal 
alloy fixed to the front end of the head provided that the completed head is smooth 
(see Rule 38.4 of the Technical Rules) and uniform along the whole of its surface. 
The angle of tip shall not exceed 40 degrees. 

38.8 The cord grip, which shall cover the centre of gravity, shall not exceed the diameter of 
the shaft by more than 8mm. It may have a regular non-slip pattern surface but 
without thongs, notches or indentations of any kind. The grip shall be of uniform 
thickness. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  99 



Book C – C2.1 

38.9 The cross-section shall be regularly circular throughout (see Note (i)). The maximum 
diameter of the shaft shall be immediately in front of the grip. The central portion of 
the shaft, including the part under the grip, may be cylindrical or slightly tapered 
towards the rear but in no case may the reduction in diameter, from immediately in 
front of the grip to immediately behind, exceed 0.25mm. From the grip, the javelin 
shall taper regularly to the tip at the front and the tail at the rear. The longitudinal 
profile from the grip to the front tip and to the tail shall be straight or slightly convex 
(see Note (ii)), and there shall be no abrupt alteration in the overall diameter, except 
immediately behind the head and at the front and rear of the grip, throughout the 
length of the javelin. At the rear of the head, the reduction in the diameter may not 
exceed 2.5mm and this departure from the longitudinal profile requirement may not 
extend more than 0.3m behind the head. 

 Note (i): Whilst the cross section throughout should be circular, a maximum difference 
between the largest and the smallest diameter at any cross section of 2% is 
permitted. The mean value of these two diameters, at any nominated cross section, 
shall meet the specifications of a circular javelin in the tables hereunder. 

 Note (ii): The shape of the longitudinal profile may be quickly and easily checked 
using a metal straight edge at least 500mm long and two feeler gauges 0.20mm and 
1.25mm thick. For slightly convex sections of the profile, the straight edge will rock 
while being in firm contact with a short section of the javelin. For straight sections of 
the profile, with the straight edge held firmly against it, it must be impossible to insert 
the 0.20mm gauge between the javelin and the straight edge anywhere over the 
length of contact. This shall not apply immediately behind the joint between the head 
and the shaft. At this point it must be impossible to insert the 1.25mm gauge. 

  

100     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

38.10 The javelin shall conform to the following specifications: 

Minimum weight for admission to competition and acceptance of a Record (inclusive of the 
cord grip): 

    500g  600g  700g  800g 

Overall length (L0): 

Minimum  2000mm  2200mm  2300mm 2600mm 

Maximum  2100mm  2300mm  2400mm 2700mm 

Distance from tip of metal head to centre of gravity (L1): 

Minimum  780mm  800mm  860mm  900mm 

Maximum  880mm  920mm  1000mm 1060mm 

Distance from tail to centre of gravity (L2): 

Minimum  1120mm  1280mm  1300mm 1540mm 

Maximum  1320mm  1500mm  1540mm 1800mm 

Length of metal head (L3): 

Minimum  220mm  250mm  250mm  250mm 

 Maximum  270mm  330mm  330mm  330mm 

Width of cord grip (L4): 

 Minimum  135mm  140mm  150mm  150mm 

 Maximum  145mm  150mm  160mm  160mm 

Diameter of shaft at thickest point (in front of grip - D0): 

 Minimum  20mm  20mm  23mm  25mm 

 Maximum  24mm  25mm  28mm  30mm 

38.11 The javelin shall have no mobile parts or other apparatus, which during the throw 
could change its centre of gravity or throwing characteristics. 

38.12 The tapering of the javelin to the tip of the metal head shall be such that the angle of 
the point shall be not more than 40°. The diameter, at a point 0.15m from the tip, shall 
not exceed 80% of the maximum diameter of the shaft. At the midpoint between the 
centre of gravity and the tip of the metal head, the diameter shall not exceed 90% of 
the maximum diameter of the shaft. 

38.13 The tapering of the shaft to the tail at the rear shall be such that the diameter, at the 
midpoint between the centre of gravity and the tail, shall not be less than 90% of the 
maximum diameter of the shaft. At a point 0.15m from the tail, the diameter shall be 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)  101 



Book C – C2.1 

not less than 40% of the maximum diameter of the shaft. The diameter of the shaft at 
the end of the tail shall not be less than 3.5mm. 

  

102     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

 

Figure TR38 (Rule 193) - International Javelin 

Lengths     Diameters         Maximum    Minimum 

 L0   Overall    D0  In front of grip      –      –  

 L1   Tip to C of G  D1  At rear of grip      D0      D0-0.25mm  

 1/2L1   Half L1    D2  150mm from tip     0.8 D0     –  

 L2   Tail to C of G  D3  At rear of head      –      –  

 1/2L2   Half L2    D4  Immediately behind head   –      D3-2.5mm   

 L3   Head    D5  Half way tip to C of G    0.9 D0     –  

 L4   Grip    D6  Over grip       D0+8mm    –  

        D7  Half way tail to C of G    –      0.9 D0  

        D8  150mm from tail     –      0.4 D0  

C of G   Centre of Gravity  D9  At tail        –      3.5mm 

Note: All measurements of diameters must be to at least 0.1 mm. 

103                  World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

Team of Officials 

For a Javelin Throw event, it is recommended to allocate the available officials as follows: 

a. The Chief Judge will watch over the whole of the event. 

b. Two Judges checking whether the throw has been made correctly and measuring the 
trial. One must be provided with two flags - white to indicate if the trial is valid and red 
if it is a failure. When the throw has been measured, it is advised that the Judge 
stands on the runway holding the red flag, while the implement is returned and the 
landing area is cleared. A cone may be placed on the runway instead. (In some 
competitions this position is assumed by the Chief Judge of the event.) 

c. Where EDM is not in use the second Judge should pull through and hold the 
measuring tape in such a way that it passes through the 8m point marked on the 
runway. 

d. one or two Judges immediately after the throw placing a marker indicating the point 
from which the trial is to be measured. If the implement lands outside the sector 
either this Judge or the one with the spike/prism (whichever is closer to the line) 
should indicate this by holding their arm outstretched. An appropriate indication is 
also required if these Judges determine that the implement has not landed “head 
first”. It is recommended that some form of signal other than flags in used for this 
purpose. No indication is required for a valid trial. 

e. Judge positioning the spike/prism at the point where the marker has been placed 
ensuring the tape is on the zero mark. 

f. one or more Judges or assistants in charge of retrieving the implements and 
returning them to the implement stand or placing them in the return device. Where a 
tape is used for measurement, one of these Judges or assistants should ensure that 
the tape measure is taut in order to ensure a correct measurement. 

g. Judge - a recorder scoring the results sheet and calling each athlete (and the one 
who is to follow). 

h. Judge in charge of the scoreboard (trial-number-result). 

i. Judge in charge of the clock indicating to the athletes that they have a certain time to 
take their trial. 

j. Judge in charge of athletes. 

k. Judge in charge of the implement stand. 

Note (i): This is the traditional setting-up of the officials. In major competitions, where a 
data system and electronic scoreboards are available, specialised personnel are 
certainly required. To be clear in these cases, the progress and scoring of a Field Event 
is followed by both the recorder and by the data system. 

Note (ii): Officials and equipment must be placed in such a way as not to obstruct the 
athlete’s way nor impede the view of the spectators. 

Note (iii): A space must be reserved for a wind-sock to indicate the wind direction and 
strength. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)              104 



Book C – C2.1 

PART IV - COMBINED EVENTS COMPETITIONS  
(In force from 1 November 2019) 

39. (Rule 200)   Combined Events Competitions 

U18, U20 and Senior Men (Pentathlon and Decathlon) 

39.1 The Pentathlon consists of five events which shall be held on one day in the following 
order: Long Jump; Javelin Throw; 200m; Discus Throw; and 1500m. 

39.2 The Men’s Decathlon consists of ten events which shall be held on two consecutive 
24-hour periods in the following order: 

First day:  100m; Long Jump; Shot Put; High Jump; 400m. 

Second day: 110m Hurdles; Discus Throw; Pole Vault; Javelin Throw; 1500m. 

U20 and Senior Women (Heptathlon and Decathlon) 

39.3 The Heptathlon consists of seven events, which shall be held on two consecutive 24-
hour periods in the following order: 

First day:  100m Hurdles; High Jump; Shot Put; 200m. 

Second day: Long Jump; Javelin Throw; 800m. 

39.4 The Women’s Decathlon consists of ten events which shall be held on two 
consecutive 24-hour periods in the order of Rule 39.2 or in the following order: 

First day:  100m; Discus Throw; Pole Vault; Javelin Throw; 400m. 

Second day: 100m Hurdles; Long Jump; Shot Put; High Jump;1500m. 

39.5 The U18 Women’s Heptathlon consists of seven events, which shall be held on two 
consecutive 24-hour periods in the following order: 

  First day:  100m Hurdles; High Jump; Shot Put; 200m. 
  Second day: Long Jump; Javelin Throw; 800m. 

General 

39.6 At the discretion of the Combined Events Referee, there shall, whenever possible, be 
an interval of at least 30 minutes between the time one event ends and the next 
event begins, for any individual athlete. If possible, the time between the finish of the 
last event on the first day and the start of the first event on the second day should be 
at least 10 hours. 

The minimum period of 30 minutes is to be calculated as being the actual time between the 
end of the last race or trial for any athlete in the previous event to the start of the first race or 
trial in the next event. It is therefore possible and no uncommon for athletes to go directly 
from the conclusion of one event to the warm-up for the next so that the 30 minutes is in 
effect taken up by the movement from one site to another and the warm-up. Changes in the 
number of days over which a Combined Events competition is conducted are not allowed 
except for special cases (e.g. exceptional weather conditions). Such decisions are matters 
for the Technical Delegates and/or Referees in the particular circumstances of each case. 
However if, for any reason, the competition is held for a longer period than according to 

105     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

Rules 39 or 53 of the Technical Rules then a record in Combined Events (total number of 
points) cannot be ratified. 

39.7 In each separate event, except the last, of a Combined Events competition, the heats 
and groups shall be arranged by the Technical Delegate(s) or Combined Events 
Referee, as applicable, so that the athletes with similar performances in each 
individual event during a predetermined period, shall be placed in the same heat or 
group. Preferably five or more, and never less than three, athletes shall be placed in 
each heat or group. When this cannot be achieved because of the timetable of 
events, the heats or groups for the next event should be arranged as and when 
athletes become available from the previous event. 

In the last event of a Combined Events competition, the heats should be arranged so 
that the last one contains the leading athletes after the penultimate event. 

The Technical Delegate(s) or the Combined Events Referee shall have the authority 
to rearrange any group if, in their opinion, it is desirable. 

39.8 The Rules for each event constituting the competition will apply with the following 
exceptions: 

39.8.1 in the Long Jump and each of the throwing events, each athlete shall be 
allowed three trials only. 

39.8.2 in case a Fully Automatic Timing and Photo Finish System is not available, 
each athlete's time shall be taken by three Timekeepers independently. 

39.8.3 in the Track Events, only one false start per race shall be allowed without 
the disqualification of the athlete(s) responsible for the false start. Any 
athlete(s) responsible for further false starts in the race shall be disqualified 
by the Starter (see also Rule 16.9 of the Technical Rules). 

39.8.4 in the Vertical Jumps, each increase of the bar shall be uniform throughout 
the competition: 3cm in the High Jump and 10cm in the Pole Vault. 

39.8.5 starting positions / lanes for last event of a Combined Events competition 
may be determined by the Technical Delegate(s) or the Combined Events 
Referee as they deem desirable. In all other events they shall be drawn by 
lot. 

39.9 Only one system of timing may be applied throughout each individual event. 
However, for Record purposes, times obtained from a Fully Automatic Timing and 
Photo Finish system shall be applied regardless of whether such times are available 
for other athletes in the event. 

Two systems of timekeeping are recognised for this purpose – those set out in Rules 19.1.1 
and 19.1.2 of the Technical Rules. 

If for example there is a malfunction of Photo Finish being used for some but not all of the 
heats it will be impossible to compare directly the points scores in the two systems for the 
same time - one by Hand Time and the other automatic. 

Since under Rule 39.9 of the Technical Rules, only one system of timing may be applied 
throughout any single event in a competition, in such a case all athletes would have their 
points determined based on their manual times using the specific manual times table.  

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)              106 



Book C – C2.1 

To be clear, if in other events all athletes have Photo Finish times, the electronic times table 
can be used for those events. 

39.10 Any athlete failing to attempt to start or make a trial in one of the events shall not be 
allowed to take part in the subsequent events but shall be considered to have 
abandoned the competition. They shall not, therefore, figure in the final classification. 

Any athlete deciding to withdraw from a Combined Events competition shall 
immediately inform the Combined Events Referee of their decision. 

39.11 The scores, according to the current Combined Events Scoring Tables, shall be 
announced, separate for each event and as a cumulative total, to all athletes after the 
completion of each event. 

The athletes shall be placed in order according to the total number of points 
obtained. 

The same Scoring Tables are used for each event even if for the younger age groups the 
specifications for the hurdles or throwing implements differ from those used for senior 
competition.  

The score for any performance in either a Track Event or a Field Event can be found in the 
appropriate table. In many events, not all possible times or distances are listed in the table. 
In such cases, the score for the nearest lesser performance shall be used. 

Example: For the women’s Javelin Throw there is no points score shown for a distance of 
45.82m. The nearer shorter distance listed in the table is 45.78m for which there is a score 
of 779 points.  

39.12 When it is decided to use the Gundersen (or similar) Method for the start of the last 
event of a Combined Events competition, the relevant competition regulations should 
specify any particular rules that should be applied and the method by which the races 
should be started and conducted. 

39.13 If two or more athletes achieve an equal number of points for any place in the 
competition, it shall be determined as a tie. 

107     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

PART V – INDOOR COMPETITIONS 
(In force from 1 November 2019) 

40. (Rule 210)   Applicability of Outdoor Rules to Indoor Competitions 

With the exceptions stated in the following Rules of this Part V and the requirement for wind 
measurement set out in Rules 17 and 29 of the Technical Rules, the Rules of Parts I to IV 
for outdoor competitions shall apply to Indoor Competitions. 

41. (Rule 211)   The Indoor Stadium 

41.1 The stadium shall be completely enclosed and covered. Lighting, heating and 
ventilation shall be provided to give satisfactory conditions for competition. 

41.2 The Field of Play should include an oval track; a straight track for sprints and hurdles; 
runways and landing areas for jumping events. In addition, a circle and landing sector 
for the Shot Put should be provided, whether permanently or temporarily. All the 
facilities should conform to the specifications in the World Athletics Track and Field 
Facilities Manual. 

41.3 All the tracks, runways or take-off surface areas shall be covered with a synthetic 
material that should preferably be able to accept 6mm spikes in running shoes. 

Alternative thicknesses may be provided by the stadium management, who will notify 
athletes of the permissible length of spikes. (See Rule 5.4 of the Technical Rules). 

Indoor Track and Field competitions under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.6 of the 
International Competition definition should be held only on facilities that hold a World 
Athletics Indoor Athletics Facility Certificate. It is recommended that, when such 
facilities are available, competitions under paragraphs 1.4, 1.5, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9 and 1.10 
of the International Competition definition should also be held on these facilities. 

41.4 The foundation on which the synthetic surface of the tracks, runways and take-off 
areas is laid shall be either solid e.g. concrete or, if of suspended construction (such 
as wooden boards or plywood sheets mounted on joists), without any special sprung 
sections and, as far as technically possible, each runway shall have a uniform 
resilience throughout. This shall be checked, for the take-off area for the jumps, 
before each competition.  

 Note (i): A "sprung section" is any deliberately engineered or constructed section 
designed to give extra assistance to an athlete. 

Note (ii): The World Athletics Track and Field Facilities Manual, which is available 
from the World Athletics Office, or may be downloaded from the World Athletics 
website, contains more detailed and defined specifications for planning and 
construction of indoor stadia including diagrams for track measurement and marking. 

Note (iii): The current standard forms required to be used for the certification 
application and measurement report as well as the Certification System Procedures 
are available from the World Athletics Office, or may be downloaded from the World 
Athletics website. 

Lack of suitable lighting is a common problem for Indoor Competitions. A covered stadium 
must have a lighting which allows a correct and fair delivery of the events and if there is 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)              108 



Book C – C2.1 

television coverage the illumination level may need to be higher. The finish line area(s) may 
require additional lighting for the Fully Automatic Timing. 

42. (Rule 212) The Straight Track 

[See the Rules for outdoor competitions and the World Athletics Track and Field Facilities 
Manual.] 

43. (Rule 213)   The Oval Track and Lanes 

43.1 The nominal length should preferably be 200m. It shall consist of two parallel 
straights and two bends, which may be banked, whose radii should be equal. 

The inside of the track shall be bordered either with a kerb of suitable material, 
approximately 50mm in height and width, or with a white line 50mm wide. The 
outside edge of this kerb or line forms the inside of lane 1. The inside edge of the 
kerb or line shall be horizontal throughout the length of the track with a maximum 
slope of 1:1000 (0.1%). The kerb on the two straights may be omitted, and a white 
line 50mm wide substituted. 

Note: All measurements shall be taken as indicated in Rule 14.2 of the Technical 
Rules.  

Lanes 

43.2 The track should have a minimum of four and a maximum of six lanes. The nominal 
width of the lanes shall be between 0.90m and 1.10m including the lane line on the 
right. All lanes shall be of the same nominal width with a tolerance of ± 0.01m to the 
selected width. The lanes shall be separated by white lines 50mm wide. 

Banking 

43.3 The angle of banking in all the lanes in the bend and, separately, in the straight, 
should be the same at any cross section of the track. The straight may be flat or have 
a maximum lateral inclination of 1:100 (1%) towards the inside lane. 

In order to ease the change from the straight to the banked bend, the change may be 
made with a smooth gradual horizontal transition which may be extended into the 
straight. In addition, there should be a vertical transition. 

Marking of the Inside Edge 

43.4 Where the inside edge of the track is bordered with a white line, it shall be marked 
additionally with cones or flags on the bends and, optionally, on the straights. The 
cones shall be at least 0.15m high. The flags shall be approximately 0.25m × 0.20m 
in size, at least 0.45m high and set at an angle of 60° with the ground away from the 
track. The cones or flags shall be placed on the white line so that the edge of the 
base of the cone or flag pole coincides with the edge of the white line closest to the 
track. The cones or flags shall be placed at intervals not exceeding 1.5m on the 
bends and, if used, 10m on the straights. 

Note: For all indoor competitions directly under World Athletics, the use of an inside 
kerb is strongly recommended. 

109     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

An Oval Track may be longer than 200m but any records for 200m or longer races would not 
be ratified. To organise top level competitions, it will be useful to have a 6 lane track. The 
ideal width of the lanes of an Oval Track should be 1m. 

 

When positioning the flags or cones it must be taken into account that the white line on the 
inside edge of lane 1 does not belong to the runner drawn in that lane. Cones are preferred 
and recommended for Indoor Competitions.  

44. (Rule 214)   Start and Finish on the Oval Track 

44.1 Technical information on the construction and marking of a 200m banked indoor 
track are given in detail in the World Athletics Track and Field Facilities Manual. The 
basic principles to be adopted are given hereunder. 

Basic Requirements 

44.2 The start and finish of a race shall be denoted by white lines 50mm wide, at right 
angles to the lane lines for straight parts of the track and along a radius line for 
curved parts of the track. 

44.3 The requirements for the finish line are that, if at all possible, there should be only 
one for all the different lengths of race, it shall be on a straight part of the track and 
as much of that straight as possible should be before the finish. 

44.4 The essential requirement for all start lines, straight, staggered or curved, is that the 
distance for every athlete, when taking the shortest permitted route, shall be the 
same. 

44.5 As far as possible, start lines (and takeover zone lines for Relay Races) should not 
be on the steepest part of the banking. 

Conduct of the Races 

44.6 Conduct of the Races, as follows: 

44.6.1 Races of up to, and including, 300m shall be run entirely in lanes. 

44.6.2 Races over 300m, and less than 800m shall start and continue in lanes 
until the breakline marked at the end of the second bend. 

44.6.3 For the start of races of 800m, each athlete may be assigned a separate 
lane, or up to two athletes may be assigned per lane, or a group start, as in 
Rule 17.5.2 of the Technical Rules preferably commencing in lanes 1 and 
4, may be used. In these cases, athletes may leave their lane, or those 
running in the outer group may join the inner group, only after the breakline 
marked at the end of the first bend, or if the race is run with two bends in 
lanes, at the end of the second bend. A single curved start line may also 
be used. 

44.6.4 Races longer than 800m shall be run without lanes using an arced start 
line or group starts. If a group start is used, the breakline shall be at the 
end of either the first or second bend. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)              110 



Book C – C2.1 

If an athlete does not follow this Rule, they shall be disqualified. 

The breakline shall be an arced line marked after each bend, 50mm wide, across all 
lanes other than lane 1. To assist athletes identify the breakline, small cones, prisms 
or other suitable markers, 50mm × 50mm and no more than 0.15m high, preferably 
of different colour from the breakline and the lane lines, shall be placed on the lane 
lines immediately before the intersection of the lane lines and the breakline. 

Note (i): In competitions other than those held under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.6 
of the International Competition definition, the participating teams may agree not to 
use lanes for the 800m event. 

Note (ii): On tracks with less than six lanes, a group start may be used to allow six 
athletes to compete. 

Start Line and Finish Line for a Track of 200m Nominal Length 

44.7 The start line in lane 1 should be on the principal straight. Its position shall be 
determined so that the most advanced staggered start line in the outside lane (400m 
races) should be in a position where the angle of banking should not be more than 12 
degrees.  

The finish line for all races on the oval track shall be an extension of the start line in 
lane 1, right across the track and at right angles to the lane lines. 

Colours to use for marking the track are indicated on the Track Marking Plan included in the 
World Athletics Track and Field Facilities Manual.  

45. (Rule 215)   Seedings and Draw for Lanes in Track Events 

45.1 The ranking and composition of heats shall be made in accordance with Rule 20.3 of 
the Technical Rules. 

45.2 For all rounds in all events run wholly or partly in lanes around a bend, where there 
are successive rounds of a race, three draws for lanes will then be made: 

45.2.1 one for the two highest ranked athletes or teams to determine placings in 
the outer two lanes;  

45.2.2 another for the third and fourth ranked athletes or teams to determine 
placings in the next two lanes; 

45.2.3 another for the other athletes or teams to determine placings in any 
remaining inner lanes.  

45.3 For all other races, the lane order shall be drawn in accordance with Rules 20.4.1-
20.4.2 and 20.5 of the Technical Rules. 

Where tracks have a different configuration of lanes, then the tables to be used should be 
adapted either in the specific Technical Regulations for the competition or if not by the 
Technical Delegate(s) or the Organisers. 

46. (Rule 216)   Clothing, Shoes and Athlete Bibs 

That part of each spike which projects from the sole or the heel shall not exceed 6mm (or as 
required by the Organisers) subject always to the maxima provided in Rule 5.4 of the 

111     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

Technical Rules. 

47. (Rule 217)   Hurdle Races 

47.1 The standard distances shall be: 50m or 60m on the straight track. 

47.2 Layout of the hurdles for races: 

 U18 U20 Men Men U18 U20 Women/

Men Women Women 

Height of 
0.914m 0.991m 1.067m 0.762m 0.838m 

hurdle 

Distance 50m/60m 

Number of 
4/5 

hurdles 

Start line to 
13.72m 13.00m  

first hurdle 

Between 
9.14m 8.50m  

hurdles 

Last hurdle to 
8.86m/9.72m 11.50m/13.00m  

finish line 

48. (Rule 218)   Relay Races 

Conduct of the Races 

48.1 In the 4 × 200m race, all the first leg and the first bend of the second leg up to the 
nearer edge of the breakline described in Rule 44.6 of the Technical Rules, shall be 
run in lanes. Each takeover zone shall be 20m long and the second, third and fourth 
athlete shall start within this zone. 

48.2 The 4 × 400m race shall be run according to Rule 44.6.2 of the Technical Rules. 

48.3 The 4 × 800m race shall be run according to Rule 44.6.3 of the Technical Rules. 

48.4 The waiting athletes in the third and fourth legs of the 4 × 200m race, in the second, 
third and fourth legs of the 4 × 400m and the 4 × 800m race shall, under the direction 
of a designated official, place themselves in their waiting position in the same order 
(inside to out) as the order of their respective team members as they enter the last 
bend. Once the incoming athletes have passed this point, the waiting athletes shall 
maintain their order, and shall not exchange positions at the beginning of the 
takeover zone. If an athlete does not follow this Rule, their team shall be disqualified. 

Note: Owing to the narrow lanes, indoor Relay Races are much more liable to collisions and 
unintended obstruction than outdoor Relay Races. It is, therefore, recommended that, when 
possible, a spare lane should be left between each team. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)              112 



Book C – C2.1 

49. (Rule 219)   High Jump 

Runway and Take-Off Area 

49.1 If portable mats are used, all references in the Rules to the level of the take-off area 
must be construed as referring to the level of the top surface of the mat. 

49.2 An athlete may start their approach on the banking of the oval track provided that the 
last 15m of their run up is on a runway complying with Rules 27.3, 27.4 and 27.5 of 
the Technical Rules. 

50. (Rule 220)   Pole Vault 

Runway 

An athlete may start their approach on the banking of the oval track provided that the last 
40m of their run up is on a runway complying with Rules 28.6 and 28.7 of the Technical 
Rules. 

51. (Rule 221)   Horizontal Jumps 

Runway 

An athlete may start their approach on the banking of the oval track provided that the last 
40m of their run up is on a runway complying with Rules 29.1 and 29.2 of the Technical 
Rules. 

52. (Rule 222)   Shot Put 

Landing Sector 

52.1 The landing sector shall consist of some suitable material on which the shot will 
make an imprint, but which will minimise any bounce. 

52.2 Where necessary to ensure the safety of spectators, officials and athletes, the 
landing sector shall be enclosed at the far end and on the two sides by a stop barrier 
and/or protective netting, placed as close to the circle as required. The 
recommended minimum height of the netting should be 4m and sufficient to stop a 
shot, whether in flight or bouncing from the landing surface.  

52.3 In view of the limited space in an indoor Field of Play, the area enclosed by the stop 
barrier may not be large enough to include a full 34.92° sector. The following 
conditions shall apply to any such restriction. 

52.3.1 The stop barrier at the far end shall be at least 0.50m beyond the current 
World Record in Shot Put for men or women. 

52.3.2 The sector lines on either side shall be symmetrical about the centre line of 
the 34.92° sector. 

52.3.3 The sector lines may either run radially from the centre of the Shot Put 
circle including a full 34.92° sector, or may be parallel to each other and 
the centre line of the 34.92° sector. Where the sector lines are parallel, the 
minimum separation of the two sector lines shall be 9m. 

113     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

It is recommended that the stop barrier / protective netting on either side should be 
extended towards the circle so that it starts within 8m of it and that, for the length of 
these extensions, the height of the netting should be at least 5m. 

Construction of the Shot 

52.4 Depending on the type of landing area (see Rule 52.1 of the Technical Rules), the 
shot shall be either solid metal or metal cased or, alternatively, soft plastic or rubber 
casing with a suitable filling. Both types of shot may not be used in the same 
competition. 

Solid Metal or Metal Cased Shot 

52.5 These shall comply with Rule 33.4 and 33.5 of the Technical Rules, for the Shot Put 
outdoors. 

Plastic or Rubber Cased Shot 

52.6 The shot shall have a soft plastic or rubber case with a suitable filling such that no 
damage shall be caused when landing on a normal sports hall floor. It shall be 
spherical in shape and its surface finish shall be smooth.  

Information for manufacturers: to be smooth, the surface average height must be less 
than 1.6µm, i.e. a roughness number N7 or less. 

52.7 The shot shall conform to the following specifications: 

Minimum weight for admission to competition and acceptance of a Record: 

    3.000kg 4.000kg 5.000kg 6.000kg 7.260kg 

Diameter: 

Minimum  85mm  95mm  100mm 105mm 110mm 

Maximum  120mm 130mm 135mm 140mm 145mm 

53. (Rule 223)   Combined Events Competitions 

U18, U20 and Senior Men (Pentathlon) 

53.1 The Pentathlon consists of five events, which shall be held on one day in the 
following order: 

60m Hurdles; Long Jump; Shot Put; High Jump; 1000m. 

U18, U20 and Senior Men (Heptathlon) 

53.2 The Heptathlon consists of seven events which shall be held over two consecutive 24 
hour periods in the following order: 

First day:  60m; Long Jump; Shot Put; High Jump. 

Second day: 60m Hurdles; Pole Vault; 1000m. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)              114 



Book C – C2.1 

U18, U20 and Senior Women (Pentathlon) 

53.3 The Pentathlon consists of five events and shall be held on one day in the following 
order: 

60m Hurdles; High Jump; Shot Put; Long Jump; 800m. 

Heats and Groups 

53.4 Preferably four or more, and never less than three, athletes shall be placed in each 
heat or group. 

 

115     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

 PART VI - RACE WALKING EVENTS 
(In force from 1 November 2019) 

54. (Rule 230)   Race Walking 

Distances 

54.1 The standard distances shall be: indoor: 3000m, 5000m; outdoor: 5000m, 10km, 
10,000m, 20km, 20,000m, 50km, 50,000m.  

Definition of Race Walking 

54.2 Race Walking is a progression of steps so taken that the walker makes contact with 
the ground, so that no visible (to the human eye) loss of contact occurs. The 
advancing leg must be straightened (i.e. not bent at the knee) from the moment of 
first contact with the ground until the vertical upright position.  

Judging 

54.3 Judging, as follows: 

54.3.1 The appointed Judges of Race Walking shall elect a Chief Judge, if one 
has not been appointed previously.  

54.3.2 All the Judges shall act in an individual capacity and their judgements shall 
be based on observations made by the human eye. 

54.3.3 In competitions held under paragraph 1.1 of the International Competition 
definition, all Judges shall be World Athletics Level International Race 
Walking Judges. In competitions held under paragraphs 1.2, 1.3, 1.5, 1.6, 
1.7 and 1.10 of the International Competition definition, all Judges shall be 
either Area Level or World Athletics Level International Race Walking 
Judges. 

54.3.4 For Road Races, there should normally be a minimum of six to a maximum 
of nine Judges including the Chief Judge. 

54.3.5 For Track Races, there should normally be six Judges including the Chief 
Judge. 

54.3.6 In competitions held under paragraph 1.1 of the International Competition 
definition not more than one Judge (excluding the Chief Judge) affiliated 
with any one Member can officiate.  

Note: The Member affiliation of each Judge is that properly stated on the 
current lists of Area Level or World Athletics Level International Race 
Walking Judges. 

Chief Judge 

54.4 Chief Judge, as follows: 

54.4.1 In competitions held under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4 and 1.6 of the 
International Competition definition, the Chief Judge has the power to 
disqualify an athlete in the last 100m, when their mode of progression 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)              116 



Book C – C2.1 

obviously fails to comply with Rule 54.2 of the Technical Rules regardless 
of the number of previous Red Cards the Chief Judge has received on that 
athlete. An athlete who is disqualified by the Chief Judge under these 
circumstances shall be allowed to finish the race. They shall be notified of 
this disqualification by the Chief Judge or a Chief Judge’s Assistant by 
showing the athlete a red paddle at the earliest opportunity after the athlete 
has finished the race. 

54.4.2 The Chief Judge shall act as the supervising official for the competition, 
and act as a Judge only in the special situation noted in Rule 54.4.1. In 
competitions held under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.6 of the 
International Competition definition, two or more Chief Judge's Assistants 
shall be appointed. The Chief Judge's Assistant(s) are to assist with the 
notification of disqualifications only and shall not act as Race Walking 
Judges. 

54.4.3 For all competitions held under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.6 of the 
International Competition definition and where possible for other 
competitions, an official in charge of the Posting Board(s) and a Chief 
Judge's Recorder shall be appointed. 

Yellow Paddle 

54.5 When a Judge is not completely satisfied that an athlete is fully complying with Rule 
54.2 of the Technical Rules, they should, where possible, show the athlete a yellow 
paddle with the symbol of the offence on each side. 

 An athlete cannot be shown a second yellow paddle by the same Judge for the same 
offence. Having shown a yellow paddle to an athlete, the Judge shall inform the Chief 
Judge of their action after the competition. 

Red Cards 

54.6 When a Judge observes an athlete failing to comply with Rule 54.2 of the Technical 
Rules by exhibiting visible loss of contact or a bent knee during any part of the 
competition, the Judge shall send a Red Card to the Chief Judge. 

Disqualification 

54.7 Disqualification, as follows: 

54.7.1 Except as provided in Rule 54.7.3 of the Technical Rules, when three Red 
Cards from three different Judges have been sent to the Chief Judge on 
the same athlete, the athlete is disqualified and they shall be notified of this 
disqualification by the Chief Judge or a Chief Judge’s Assistant by being 
shown a red paddle. The failure to give notification shall not result in the 
reinstatement of a disqualified athlete. 

54.7.2 In competitions under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 or 1.5 of the International 
Competition definition, in no circumstances shall the Red Cards of two 
Judges affiliated with the same Member have the power to disqualify. 

 Note: The Member affiliation of each Judge is that properly stated on the 
current lists of Area Level or World Athletics Level International Race 
Walking Judges. 

117     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

54.7.3 A Penalty Zone shall be used for any race where the applicable regulations 
for the competition so provide and may be used for other races as 
determined by the relevant governing body or Organisers. In such cases, 
an athlete will be required to enter the Penalty Zone and remain there for 
the applicable period once they have received three Red Cards and are so 
advised by the Chief Judge or someone delegated by them. 

  The applicable period in the Penalty Zone shall be as follows: 

 Races up to and including Time 

 5000m/5km     0.5 min 

 10,000m/10km    1 min 

 20,000m/20km    2 min 

 30,000m/30km    3 min 

 40,000m/40km    4 min 

50,000m/50km    5 min 

An athlete who fails to enter the Penalty Zone when required to do so, or 
remain there for the applicable period, shall be disqualified by the Referee. 

54.7.4 If, under Rule 54.7.3 of the Technical Rules, an athlete receives a third 
Red Card and it is no longer practicable to direct them to enter the Penalty 
Zone before the end of the race, the Referee shall add the time they would 
have been required to spend in the Penalty Zone to their finishing time and 
adjust the finishing order as may be necessary. 

54.7.5 If, at any time when Rule 54.7.3 of the Technical Rules applies, an athlete 
receives an additional Red Card from a Judge other than one of the three 
who had previously sent a Red Card, they shall be disqualified. 

54.7.6 In Track Races, an athlete who is disqualified shall immediately leave the 
track and, in Road Races, shall, immediately after being disqualified, 
remove the distinguishing bibs and leave the course. Any disqualified 
athlete who fails to leave the course or track or comply with directions 
given under Rule 54.7.3 of the Technical Rules to enter and remain for the 
required period in the Penalty Zone may be liable to further disciplinary 
action in accordance with Rule 18.5 of the Competition Rules and Rule 7.2 
of the Technical Rules. 

54.7.7 One or more Posting Boards shall be placed on the course and near the 
finish to keep athletes informed about the number of Red Cards that have 
been sent to the Chief Judge for each athlete. The symbol of each offence 
should also be indicated on the Posting Board. 

54.7.8 For all competitions falling under paragraph 1.1 of the International 
Competition definition, hand held computer devices with transmission 
capability must be used by the Judges to communicate all Red Cards to 
the Recorder and the Posting Board(s). In all other competitions, in which 
such a system is not used, the Chief Judge, immediately after the end of 
the event, shall report to the Referee the identification of all athletes 
disqualified under Rules 54.4.1, 54.7.1 or 54.7.3 of the Technical Rules by 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)              118 



Book C – C2.1 

indicating the bib identification, the time of the notification and the offences; 
the same shall be done for all the athletes who received Red Cards. 

Start 

54.8 The races shall be started by the firing of a gun, cannon, air horn or like device. The 
commands for races longer than 400m shall be used (Rule 16.2.2 of the Technical 
Rules). In races which include a large number of athletes, five-minute, three-minute 
and one-minute warnings before the start of the race should be given. On the 
command “On your marks”, the athletes shall assemble on the start line in the 
manner determined by the organisers. The Starter shall ensure that no athlete has 
their foot (or any part of their body) touching the start line or the ground in front of it, 
and shall then start the race. 

Safety 

54.9 The Organisers of Race Walking events shall ensure the safety of athletes and 
officials. In competitions held under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.6 of the 
International Competition definition, the Organisers shall ensure that the roads used 
for the competition are closed to motorised traffic in all directions. 

Drinking / Sponging and Refreshment Stations in Road Events 

54.10 Drinking/Sponging and Refreshment Stations in Road Events, as follows: 

54.10.1 Water and other suitable refreshments shall be available at the start and 
finish of all races. 

54.10.2 For all events of 5km or longer up to and including 10km, water only 
drinking / sponging stations shall be provided at suitable intervals if 
weather conditions warrant such provision. 

 Note: Mist stations may also be arranged, when considered appropriate 
under certain organisational and/or climatic conditions. 

54.10.3 For all events longer than 10km, refreshment stations shall be provided 
every lap. In addition, water only drinking / sponging stations shall be 
placed approximately midway between the refreshment stations or more 
frequently if weather conditions warrant such provision. 

54.10.4 Refreshments, which may be provided by either the Organisers or the 
athlete, shall be placed at the stations so that they are easily accessible to, 
or may be put by authorised persons into the hands of, the athletes. 
Refreshments provided by the athletes shall be kept under the supervision 
of officials designated by the Organisers from the moment that the 
refreshments are delivered by the athletes or their representatives. Those 
officials shall ensure that the refreshments are not altered or tampered with 
in any way. 

54.10.5 Authorised persons may not enter the course nor obstruct any athlete. 
They may hand the refreshment to the athlete either from behind, or from a 
position no more than one metre to the side, but not in front, of the table. 

54.10.6 In competitions held under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.6 of the 
International Competition definition, a maximum of two officials per 

119     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

Member may be stationed at any one time behind the table. No official or 
authorised person shall, under any circumstances, move beside an athlete 
while they are taking refreshment or water. 

Note: For an event in which a Member may be represented by more than 
three athletes, the Technical Regulations may allow additional officials at 
the refreshment tables. 

54.10.7 An athlete may, at any time, carry water or refreshment by hand or 
attached to their body provided it was carried from the start or collected or 
received at an official station. 

54.10.8 An athlete who receives or collects refreshment or water from a place other 
than the official stations, except where provided for medical reasons from 
or under the direction of race officials, or takes the refreshment of another 
athlete, should, for a first such offence, be warned by the Referee normally 
by showing a yellow card. For a second offence, the Referee shall 
disqualify the athlete, normally by showing a red card. The athlete shall 
then immediately leave the course.  

Note: An athlete may receive from or pass to another athlete refreshment, 
water or sponges provided it was carried from the start or collected or 
received at an official station. However, any continuous support from an 
athlete to one or more others in such a way may be regarded as unfair 
assistance and warnings and/or disqualifications as outlined above may be 
applied. 

Generally, where it is logical and in accordance with practice, there is uniformity of the 
provisions within Rules 54, 55 and 56 of the Technical Rules pertaining to outside events. It 
should be noted however that Rule 54.10.5 of the Technical Rules is intentionally different 
from Rule 55.8.5 of the Technical Rules in that in walking events, the team officials are not 
permitted in front of the tables. 

Road Courses 

54.11 Road Courses, as follows: 

54.11.1 The circuit shall be no shorter than 1 km and no longer than 2km. For 
events that start and finish in the stadium, the circuit should be located as 
close as possible to the stadium. 

54.11.2 Road courses shall be measured in accordance with Rule 55.3 of the 
Technical Rules. 

Race Conduct 

54.12 An athlete may leave the marked course with the permission and under the 
supervision of an official, provided that by going off course they do not shorten the 
distance to be covered. 

54.13 If the Referee is satisfied on the report of a Judge or Umpire or otherwise that an 
athlete has left the marked course thereby shortening the distance to be covered, 
they shall be disqualified. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)              120 



Book C – C2.1 

 PART VII - ROAD RACES 
(In force from 1 November 2019)  

55. (Rule 240)   Road Races 

Distances 

55.1 The standard distances shall be: 5km, 10km, 15km, 20km, Half-Marathon, 25km, 
30km, Marathon (42.195km), 100km and Road Relay. 

Note: It is recommended that the Road Relay race be run over the Marathon 
distance, ideally over a 5km loop course, with stages of 5km, 10km, 5km, 10km, 
5km, 7.195km. For an U20 Road Relay, the recommended distance is a Half-
Marathon with stages of 5km, 5km, 5km, 6.098km. 

Course 

55.2 The races shall be run on made-up roads. However, when traffic or similar 
circumstances make it unsuitable, the course, duly marked, may be on a bicycle path 
or footpath alongside the road, but not on soft ground such as grass verges or the 
like. The start and finish may be within an athletic Field of Play. 

Note (i): It is recommended that, for Road Races staged over standard distances, the 
start and finish points, measured along a theoretical straight line between them 
should not be further apart than 50% of the race distance. For approval of Records, 
see Rule 32.21.2 of the Competition Rules. 

Note (ii): It is acceptable for the start, finish and other segments of the race to be 
conducted on grass or other non-paved surfaces. These segments shall be kept to a 
minimum. 

55.3 The course shall be measured along the shortest possible route that an athlete could 
follow within the section of the road permitted for use in the race. 

 In all competitions under paragraphs 1.1 and, where possible, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.6 of the 
International Competition definition, the measurement line should be marked along 
the course in a distinctive colour that cannot be mistaken for other markings. 

 The length of the course shall not be less than the official distance for the event. In 
competitions under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.6 of the International Competition 
definition, the uncertainty in the measurement shall not exceed 0.1% (i.e. 42m for the 
Marathon) and the length of the course should have been certified in advance by a 
World Athletics approved course measurer. 

  Note (i): For measurement, the "Calibrated Bicycle Method" shall be used. 

Note (ii): To prevent a course from being found to be shorter than the official race 
distance on future re-measurement, it is recommended that a "short course 
prevention factor" be built in when laying out the course. For bicycle measurements 
this factor should be 0.1% which means that each km on the course will have a 
"measured length" of 1001m. 

Note (iii): If it is intended that parts of the course on race day will be defined by the 
use of non-permanent equipment such as cones, barricades, etc. their positioning 
shall be decided not later than the time of the measurement and the documentation 

121     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

of such decisions shall be included in the measurement report. 

Note (iv): It is recommended that for Road Races staged over standard distances, 
the overall decrease in elevation between the start and finish should not exceed 
1:1000, i.e. 1m per km (0.1%). For approval of Records, see Rule 32.21.3 of the 
Competition Rules. 

Note (v): A course measurement certificate is valid for 5 years, after which the course 
shall be re-measured even when there are no obvious changes to it. 

55.4 The distance in kilometres on the route shall be displayed to all athletes.  

55.5 For Road Relays, lines 50mm wide shall be drawn across the course to mark the 
start of each stage distance (scratch line). Similar lines shall be drawn 10m before 
and 10m after the scratch line to denote the takeover zone. All takeover procedures, 
which, unless otherwise specified by the organisers, shall comprise a physical 
contact between the incoming and outgoing athletes, shall be completed within this 
zone. 

Start 

55.6 The races shall be started by the firing of a gun, cannon, air horn or like device. The 
commands for races longer than 400m shall be used (Rule 16.2.2 of the Technical 
Rules). In races which include a large number of athletes, five-minute, three-minute 
and one-minute warnings before the start of the race should be given. On the 
command “On your marks”, the athletes shall assemble on the start line in the 
manner determined by the organisers. The Starter shall ensure that no athlete has 
their foot (or any part of their body) touching the start line or the ground in front of it, 
and shall then start the race. 

As for middle and long distance Track Events, it is emphasised for events held outside the 
stadium that Starters and Referees should avoid being over-zealous in the application of the 
false start rules to such events. Recalling starts in road races and other outside events can 
be difficult, and in large fields impractical, in any case. However, where there is a clear and 
wilful breach, the Referee should not hesitate to consider appropriate action in respect of an 
individual either during or after the race. However, in major events, where the start 
mechanism malfunctions and it is clear or possible that the timing system may not have 
started a recall where practical might be the best option. 

Safety 

55.7 Organisers of Road Races shall ensure the safety of athletes and officials. In 
competitions held under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.6 of the International 
Competition definition, the Organisers shall ensure that the roads used for the 
competition are closed to motorised traffic in all directions. 

Drinking / Sponging and Refreshment Stations 

55.8 Drinking/Sponging and Refreshment Stations 

55.8.1 Water and other suitable refreshments shall be available at the start and 
finish of all races. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)              122 



Book C – C2.1 

55.8.2 For all events, water shall be available at suitable intervals of 
approximately 5km. For events longer than 10km, refreshments other than 
water may be made available at these points. 

Note (i): Where conditions warrant, taking into account the nature of the 
event, the weather conditions and the state of fitness of the majority of the 
competitors, water and/or refreshments may be placed at more regular 
intervals along the route. 

Note (ii): Mist stations may also be arranged, when considered appropriate 
under certain organisational and/or climatic conditions. 

55.8.3 Refreshments may include drinks, energy supplements, foodstuffs or any 
other item other than water. The Organisers will determine which 
refreshments it will provide based on prevailing conditions. 

55.8.4 Refreshments will normally be provided by the Organisers but it may permit 
athletes to provide their own, in which case the athlete shall nominate at 
which stations they shall be made available to them. Refreshments 
provided by the athletes shall be kept under the supervision of officials 
designated by the Organisers from the time that the refreshments are 
lodged by the athletes or their representatives. Those officials shall ensure 
that the refreshments are not altered or tampered with in any way. 

55.8.5 The Organisers shall delineate, by barriers, tables or markings on the 
ground, the area from which refreshments can be received or collected. It 
should not be directly in the line of the measured route. Refreshments shall 
be placed so that they are easily accessible to, or may be put by 
authorised persons into the hands of, the athletes. Such persons shall 
remain inside the designated area and not enter the course nor obstruct 
any athlete. No official or authorised person shall, under any 
circumstances, move beside an athlete while they are taking refreshment 
or water. 

55.8.6 In competitions held under paragraphs 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.6 of the 
International Competition definition, a maximum of two officials per 
Member may be stationed at any one time behind the area designated for 
them. 

 Note: For an event in which a Member may be represented by more than 
three athletes, the Technical Regulations may allow additional officials at 
the refreshment tables. 

55.8.7 An athlete may, at any time, carry water or refreshment by hand or 
attached to their body provided it was carried from the start or collected or 
received at an official station. 

55.8.8 An athlete who receives or collects refreshment or water from a place other 
than the official stations, except where provided for medical reasons from 
or under the direction of race officials, or takes the refreshment of another 
athlete, should, for a first such offence, be warned by the Referee normally 
by showing a yellow card. For a second offence, the Referee shall 
disqualify the athlete, normally by showing a red card. The athlete shall 
then immediately leave the course. 

123     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

Note: An athlete may receive from or pass to another athlete refreshment, 
water or sponges provided it was carried from the start or collected or 
received at an official station. However, any continuous support from an 
athlete to one or more others in such a way may be regarded as unfair 
assistance and warnings and/or disqualifications as outlined above may be 
applied. 

Race Conduct 

55.9 An athlete may leave the marked course with the permission and under the 
supervision of an official, provided that by going off course they do not shorten the 
distance to be covered.  

55.10 If the Referee is satisfied on the report of a Judge or Umpire or otherwise that an 
athlete has left the marked course thereby shortening the distance to be covered, 
they shall be disqualified. 

55.11 Umpires should be placed at regular intervals and at each key point. Other umpires 
should move along the course during the race. 

It is acknowledged that following the practice of first giving a warning when applying relevant 
aspects of Rule 55 of the Technical Rules and where applicable Rules 6.2 and 6.3 of the 
Technical Rules will create difficulties in implementation but where the opportunity arises, 
the Referee should do so. It is suggested that one option might be that course or 
refreshment station umpires be designated as assistant Referees and that they be in 
communication with the Referee and each other to ensure the effective co-ordination of 
warnings and disqualifications. But there remains the possibility as per the Note to Rule 6.2 
of the Technical Rules that in some circumstances, disqualification can, and should, occur 
without a warning being given. 

When a Transponder Timing System is not in use, or where an additional back-up recording 
system is desired, it is recommended that a funnel system such as that described for Cross 
Country Races in the commentary on Rule 56 of the Technical Rules be used. 

 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)              124 



Book C – C2.1 

PART VIII - CROSS COUNTRY, MOUNTAIN AND TRAIL RACES 
(In force from 1 November 2019) 

There are extreme variations in conditions in which Cross Country Running, Mountain 
Running and Trail Running are practised throughout the world and it is difficult to legislate 
international standardisation of these events. It must be accepted that the difference 
between very successful and unsuccessful events often lies in the natural characteristics of 
the venue and the abilities of the course designer. The following Rules are intended as a 
guide and incentive to assist Members to develop Cross Country Running, Mountain 
Running and Trail Running. 

56. (Rule 250)   Cross Country Races 

Distances 

56.1 Distances at World Athletics Cross Country Championships should be approximately: 

Men:   10km    Women:  10km 

U20 Men:  8km     U20 Women: 6km 

The distances recommended for U18 competitions should be approximately: 

U18 Men:    6km    U18 Women 4km 

It is recommended that similar distances be used for other International and National 
competitions. 

Course 

56.2 Cross Country Course Rules, as follows: 

56.2.1 The course must be designed on an open or woodland area, covered as 
far as possible by grass, with natural obstacles, which can be used by the 
course designer to build a challenging and interesting race course. 

56.2.2 The area must be wide enough to accommodate not only the course but 
also all the necessary facilities. 

56.3 For Championships and international events and, wherever possible, for other 
competitions: 

56.3.1 A loop course must be designed, with the loop measuring between 1500m 
and 2000m. If necessary, a small loop can be added in order to adjust the 
distances to the required overall distances of the various events, in which 
case the small loop must be run in the early stages of the event. It is 
recommended that each long loop should have a total ascent of at least 
10m. 

56.3.2 Existing natural obstacles shall be used if possible. However, very high 
obstacles should be avoided, as should deep ditches, dangerous ascents / 
descents, thick undergrowth and, in general, any obstacle which would 
constitute a difficulty beyond the aim of the competition. It is preferable that 
artificial obstacles should not be used but if such use is unavoidable, they 
should be made to simulate natural obstacles met within open country. In 
races where there are large numbers of athletes, narrow gaps or other 

125     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

hindrances which would deny the athletes an unhampered run shall be 
avoided for the first 300m. 

56.3.3 The crossing of roads or any kind of macadamised surfaces shall be 
avoided or at least kept to a minimum. When it is impossible to avoid such 
conditions in one or two areas of the course, the areas must be covered by 
grass, earth or mats. 

56.3.4 Apart from the start and finish areas, the course must not contain any other 
long straight. A "natural", undulating course with smooth curves and short 
straights, is the most suitable. 

56.4 Course markings, as follows: 

56.4.1 The course shall be clearly marked with tape on both sides. It is 
recommended that all along one side of the course a 1m wide corridor, 
heavily fenced from the outside of the course, shall be installed for the use 
of organisation officials and media only (obligatory for Championship 
events). Crucial areas must be heavily fenced; in particular the start area 
(including the Warm-up Area and the Call Room) and finish area (including 
any Mixed Zone). Only accredited people will be allowed access to these 
areas. 

56.4.2 The general public should only be allowed to cross the course at well 
organised cross-over points, marshalled by stewards. 

56.4.3 It is recommended that, apart from the start and finish areas, the course be 
a width of 5 metres, including the obstacle areas.  

56.5 For Cross Country Relays, lines 50mm wide 20m apart shall be drawn across the 
course to denote the takeover zone. All takeover procedures, which, unless 
otherwise specified by the organisers, shall comprise a physical contact between the 
incoming and outgoing athletes, shall be completed within this zone. 

Start 

56.6 The races shall be started by the firing of a gun, cannon, air horn or like device. The 
commands for races longer than 400m shall be used (Rule 16.2.2 of the Technical 
Rules). 

In races which include a large number of athletes, five-minute, three-minute and one-
minute warnings should be given. 

Wherever possible departure boxes should be provided for teams races with the 
members of each team to be lined up behind each other at the start of the race. In 
other races, the athletes shall be lined up in the manner determined by the 
organisers. On the command “On your marks”, the starter shall ensure that no athlete 
has their foot (or any part of their body) touching the start line or the ground in front of 
it, and shall then start the race. 

Safety 

56.7 Organisers of Cross Country Races shall ensure the safety of athletes and officials. 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)              126 



Book C – C2.1 

Drinking / Sponging and Refreshment Stations 

56.8 Water and other suitable refreshments shall be available at the start and finish of all 
races. For all events, a drinking / sponging station shall be provided every lap, if 
weather conditions warrant such provision.  

Note: Where conditions warrant, taking into account the nature of the event, the 
weather conditions and the state of fitness of the majority of the competitors, water 
and sponges may be placed at more regular intervals along the route.  

Race Conduct 

56.9 If the Referee is satisfied on the report of a Judge or Umpire or otherwise that an 
athlete has left the marked course thereby shortening the distance to be covered, 
they shall be disqualified. 

The finish area shall be wide enough to enable several runners to sprint side by side and 
long enough to separate them at the finish. 

Unless a Transponder Timing System is being used together with a backup system (such as 
a video recording) to check finishing orders, finish lanes ("funnels") should be set up some 8 
to 10 metres after the finish line with a maximum width of 0.70-0.80m. Once in the funnels, 
the athletes must not be able to overtake one another. The funnels should be 35-40m long 
into which the athletes will be directed as they cross the finish line. At the end of each funnel, 
officials will note the athletes' numbers/names and if applicable recover their transponder 
timing chips. 

The funnels should have moveable ropes at the end at which the athletes enter, so that 
when one lane is full, the next rope can be drawn across behind the last athlete, to enable 
the next finisher to enter the new finish lane, and so on. 

Judges and Timekeepers will additionally be placed on either side of the finish line and it is 
recommended that, in order to follow up any appeal relative to the finishing order, an official 
with video recording equipment (if possible with a timing clock in sight) shall be assigned and 
placed a few metres after the finish line in order to record the order in which the athletes 
cross the line. 

57. (Rule 251)   Mountain and Trail races 

Part one: General Rules 

Course 

57.1 General Rules for the Course, as follows: 

57.1.1 The discipline of Mountain and Trail Running takes place on various types 
of natural terrain (sand, dirt roads, forest paths, single track footpaths, 
snow trails etc), and in various kinds of environment (mountains, forests, 
plains, deserts etc). Races take place mostly on off-road surfaces, however 
sections of paved surfaces (e.g. asphalt, concrete, macadam etc.) are 
acceptable as a way to reach or link the trails of the course but should be 
kept to a minimum. Preferably existing roads and trails should be used. 

127     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

57.1.2 For Mountain races only, some special exceptions do exist where races 
are held on a paved surface but are only acceptable when there are large 
elevation changes on the course. 

57.1.3 The course must be marked in such a way that no navigation skills will be 
required from the athletes.  

57.1.4 Trail races have no limits to distance or altitude gain or loss and the course 
must represent the logical discovery of a region.  

57.1.5 Mountain races are traditionally divided into “uphill” and “up and down” 
races. The average altitude gain or loss can vary from approx. 50 – 250 
metres per kilometre, and the distances up to 42.2km. 

Start 

57.2 Mountain and Trail races typically have mass starts. Runners can also start 
separated by gender or age-related categories.  

Safety, Environment 

57.3 Organising Committees shall ensure the safety of athletes and officials. Specific 
conditions, such as high altitude, changing weather conditions and available 
infrastructure should be respected. The event organiser is responsible for taking care 
for the environment when planning the course, during and after the competition.  

Equipment 

57.4 Mountain and Trail races do not imply the use of a particular technique, alpine or 
other, or the use of specific equipment, such as mountaineering equipment. The use 
of hiking poles could be permitted at the discretion of the Race organisation.  The 
Race Organiser may recommend or impose mandatory equipment due to the 
conditions expected to be encountered during the race, which will allow the athlete to 
avoid a situation of distress or, in the case of an accident, to give the alert and wait in 
safety for the arrival of help. 

Race Organisation 

57.5 The Organiser shall, prior to the race, publish specific regulations of the race 
including at minimum: 

57.5.1 Details of the organiser responsible (name, contact details) 

57.5.2 Programme of the event  

57.5.3 Detailed information about the technical characteristics of the race: total 
distance, total ascent / descent, description of the main difficulties of the 
track 

57.5.4 A detailed map of the course 

57.5.5 A detailed profile of the course 

57.5.6 Course marking criteria 

57.5.7 Location of the control posts and medical/aid stations (if applicable) 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)              128 



Book C – C2.1 

57.5.8 Allowed, recommended or mandatory equipment (if applicable) 

57.5.9 Safety rules to be followed 

57.5.10 Penalties and disqualification rules 

57.5.11 Time limit and cut-off barriers (if applicable) 

Part Two: International Technical Rules 

Scope of Application 

57.6 While strongly recommended for all international championships, the application of 
the following technical rules is mandatory only in World Championships. For all 
Mountain and Trail Running events other than World Championships, the specific 
event rules and/or the national rules shall have precedence. If a Mountain and Trail 
Running competition is held under “International Technical Rules”, it must be 
specified in the event regulations. In all other cases, if a referee is appointed by a 
Member, an Area Association or the authority that oversees the competition, this 
person must ensure compliance with the general rules of Athletics but shall not 
enforce the following International Technical Rules. 

Start 

57.7 The commands for races longer than 400m shall be used (Rule 16.2.2 of the 
Technical Rules). In races which include a large number of athletes, five-minute, 
three-minute and one-minute warnings before the start of the race should be given.  
A 10s countdown to the start can also be given. 

Race conduct 

57.8 If the Referee is satisfied on the report of a judge, or Umpire, or otherwise, that an 
athlete: 

57.8.1 has left the marked course thereby shortening the distance to be covered; 

57.8.2 receives any form of assistance such as pacing, or refreshments outside of 
the official aid stations; 

57.8.3 does not comply to any of the specific race regulations; 

he shall be disqualified or get the penalty stated by the specific race 
regulations. 

Specific Provisions for Trail Races 

57.9 Specific provisions for Trail Races, as follows: 

57.9.1 Sections of paved surfaces shall not exceed 25% of the total course. 

57.9.2 Races are classified by “km-effort”; the km-effort measure is the sum of the 
distance expressed in kilometres and a hundredth of the vertical gain 
expressed in meters, rounded to the nearest whole number (for example, 
the km-effort of a race of 65km and 3500m ascent is: 65 + 3500/100 = 
100); accordingly races will be classified as follows: 

129     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

category    km-effort 

XXS     0 – 24 

XS     25 – 44 

S      45 – 74 

M     75 – 114 

L      115 – 154 

XL     155 – 209 

XXL     210 + 

57.9.3 World Championships races shall be based on the Short (S) and the Long 
(L) categories: 

a. in the Short race  the distance must be between 35km and 45km 
and the minimum vertical gain 1500m or more; 

b. in the Long race the distance must be between 75km and 85km. 

57.9.4 Competitions shall be based on the concept of self-sufficiency, meaning 
that the athletes will have to be autonomous between aid stations in terms 
of gear, communications, food and drink. 

57.9.5 A survival blanket (140cm x 200cm minimum size), a whistle and a mobile 
phone are the minimum items the athletes have to carry at all times. 
However, the LOC may impose additional mandatory items due to the 
conditions expected to be encountered during the race. 

57.9.6 Aid stations at official competitions shall be sufficiently spaced out so as to 
respect the “principle of self-sufficiency”. The maximum total number of aid 
stations, excluding start and finish line, including water points, shall be no 
more than the km-effort points of the race divided by 15, rounded to the 
lower integer (example of a race with a km-effort of 58: 58/15=3.86, which 
means no more than 3 aid stations, excluding start and finish, are allowed). 

Note: (i): In a maximum of half of the above aid stations, rounded to the 
lower integer, food, drinks and personal assistance may be given (e.g. 
maximum total number of aid stations 3, 3/2=1.5, maximum number of aid 
stations where food and personal assistance may be given is 1); at the 
remaining aid stations only drinks, but no food nor personal assistance, 
may be given. 

Note (ii): aid stations layout, where personal assistance is allowed, shall be 
organized in a way that allows each country to have an individual table or 
allocated space, identified with the flag of the Country (or Territory) and 
where their official staff will give assistance to the athletes. Tables shall be 
organized by alphabetical order, and each team is allowed to have a 
maximum of 2 officials per table. 

Note (iii): Assistance to the athletes may only be given at complete (food 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)              130 



Book C – C2.1 

and drinks) aid stations as defined above.  

57.9.7 A finishing position resulting in a tie is permissible when clearly evident by 
the athletes’ intention. 

Specific provisions for Mountain Races 

57.10 Mountain races are classified as follows: 

57.10.1 “Classic Uphill” 

57.10.2 “Classic Up and Down” 

57.10.3 “Vertical”,  

57.10.4 “Long Distance” 

57.10.5 Relays 

57.11 In all categories other than Vertical, the average incline should be between 5% (or 
50m per km) and 25% (or 250m per km). The most preferable average incline is 
approximately 10%-15% provided that the course remains runnable. These limits do 
not apply to the Vertical category, where the incline shall be not less than 25%. 

57.12 World Championships races shall be based on the following categories and 
distances: 

57.12.1 “Classic Uphill”: 5km to 6km for Juniors (men and women); 10km to 12km 
for Seniors (men and women) 

57.12.2 “Classic Up and Down”: 5km to 6km for Juniors (men and women); 10km 
to 12km for Seniors (men and women) 

57.12.3 “Vertical”: it should have at least 1000m of positive vertical elevation and 
be measured in a certified manner to an accuracy of +/- 10m. 

57.12.4 “Long Distance”: the race distance should not exceed 42.2km and the 
nature of the course maybe mainly uphill or up and down. The total amount 
of ascent in the race should exceed 2000m. The men’s winning time 
should be between two and four hours and less than 20% of the distance 
should be paved surfaces. 

57.12.5 “Relays”: Any course or team combinations, included mixed gender / age 
group, are possible as long as they are defined and communicated in 
advance. Distance and elevation gain of each individual leg should respect 
the parameters of the “Classic” categories. 

Note: Classic Uphill and Classic Up and Down events traditionally alternate 
at each edition of the World Athletics Championships. 

57.13 Water and other suitable refreshments shall be available at the start and finish of all 
races. Additional drinking / sponging stations should be provided at suitable places 
along the course. 

 

131     World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019) 



Book C – C2.1 

 

World Athletics Technical Rules (1 November 2019)